URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/artificial-intelligence-ai/page/4
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Archives - Page 4 of 5 - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Artificial Intelligence (AI)
September 26, 2024
AI hardware hub awarded $16.3M from DOD
Three projects in the California-Pacific-Northwest AI Hardware Hub (NW-AI-Hub) aimed at dramatically improving the energy efficiency of artificial intelligence hardware are getting a $16.3 million boost from the Department of Defense.
September 24, 2024
Letta, one of UC Berkeley’s most anticipated AI startups, has just come out of stealth
“Founded by Berkeley PhD students Sarah Wooders and Charles Packer, this is a highly anticipated AI startup launch. That’s because it’s a child of Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab and is the commercial entity of the popular MemGPT open source project.”
September 23, 2024
Three CS graduate students honored as Siebel Scholars
Three CS grad students have been named Siebel Scholars for the class of 2025, each receiving a $35,000 grant for their research. Cade Gordon, Jessica Lin, and Oliver Yu were recognized for their academic excellence and leadership.  Their work spans areas such as protein…
August 30, 2024
AI Safety…Ok Doomer: with Anca Dragan
Building safe and capable models is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Can we make AI work for everyone? How do we prevent existential threats? Why is alignment so important? Join Professor Hannah Fry as she delves into these critical questions with EECS Associate Professor Anca Dragan, lead…
May 3, 2024
5 questions for UC Berkeley’s Ben Recht
POLITICO interviewed EECS Professor Ben Recht as part of their Future in Five Questions series.
April 2, 2024
An OpenAI spinoff has built an AI model that helps robots learn tasks like humans
January 31, 2024
SAP Collaborates with UC Berkeley to Advance AI Research
“UC Berkeley’s research activities focus on enabling users to run large language model applications and general AI workloads seamlessly on any cloud, substantially reducing cloud costs, tapping into best-in-class hardware on different clouds and enjoying higher resource availability, according to Ion Stoica, director of the Sky Computing Lab at UC…
December 19, 2023
Alexandre Bayen named CITRIS director
Alexandre M. Bayen, Liao-Cho Innovation Endowed Chair and professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences and of civil and environmental engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and associate provost for the Berkeley Space Center, has been appointed the director of the Center for Information Technology…
December 19, 2023
I run a $38 billion software company. In 10 years, CEOs who don’t understand data and AI won’t be eligible for the top job in any industry.
Ali Ghodsi, adjunct assistant professor and CEO of Databricks discusses the importance of a “data-and-AI background” in future leaders.
December 18, 2023
Robotics Q&A with UC Berkeley’s Ken Goldberg
Ken Goldberg is a professor and the William S. Floyd Jr. Distinguished Chair in Engineering at UC Berkeley, a co-founder and chief scientist at robotics parcel sorting startup Ambidextrous and a fellow at IEEE.
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions