URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/107
News Archive - Page 107 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
September 27, 2017
Garth Gibson named CEO of the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence
CS alumnus Garth Gibson  (M.S. ’84/B.S. ’91) has been named CEO of the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Toronto, Canada.  The newly-formed Vector has received $50-million funding from Ontario and $85-million-plus from more than 30 companies, including Shopify Inc., Magna International Inc., Canada’s big banks and U.S. tech giants…
September 27, 2017
Berkeley EECS ranks 3rd in 2017 list of  50 Best Master’s in Computer Science
U.C. Berkeley is #3 in the Best Computer Science Schools rankings of the 50 Best Master’s in Computer Science Degrees for 2017. The rankings were based on a methodology which aggregates data from Payscale, U.S. News and World Report, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as well as information from the…
September 27, 2017
Lotfi Zadeh wins 2017 Golden Goose Award
CS Prof. Emeritus Lotfi Zadeh has posthumously won a 2017 Golden Goose Award for “Fuzzy Logic, Clear Impact,” sponsored by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).  The award honors teams of scientists whose silly-sounding taxpayer-funded research has returned serious benefits to society.  “Zadeh proposed these revolutionary concepts…
September 25, 2017
Anca Dragan wants autonomous cars to understand people
CS Assistant Prof. Anca Dragan is one of the subjects of a San Francisco Chronicle article titled “Humanizing cars, sensitizing humans,”  about how the rise of robot vehicles will require reprogramming our relationship with them.  Dragan was interviewed for the section on “emotional intelligence” and what a robot car…
September 22, 2017
Jacobs Hall receives 2017 AIA Education Facility Design Award of Merit
The American Institute of Architects (AIA)’s Committee on Architecture for Education (CAE) has awarded the Jacobs Institute of Design Innovation a 2017 Award of Merit.  “Education continues to evolve, and the projects from this year’s Education Facility Design Awards program…represent the state-of-the-art learning environments being developed in today’s learning spaces,”…
September 20, 2017
Arvind Sridhar awarded Davidson Fellows scholarship
Management, Entrepreneurship, & Technology Program (M.E.T.) student Arvind Sridhar (CS/Business) has been awarded a $25,000 Davidson Fellows scholarship.  The award is presented annually by the Davidson Institute for Talent Development to 20 students based on “significant work” in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, literature, music and philosophy. Sridhar’s scholarship was granted…
September 20, 2017
Nikunj Oza presents NASA’s perspectives on Deep Learning
CS alumnus Nikunj Oza (M.S. ’98/Ph.D. ’01), now a research scientist in the Intelligent Systems Division of the NASA Ames Research Center, talks about NASA’s perspectives on Deep Learning for an HPC User Forum video.  He presents a broad overview of work at NASA in data sciences, data mining, and…
September 20, 2017
Pulkit Agrawal is teaching machines how to be curious
CS Ph.D. student Pulkit Agrawal (advisers: Jitendra Malik and Jack Gallant) is the subject of a Quant Magazine article titled “Clever Machines Learn How to Be Curious.”  Agrawal is working at the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab with CS grad student Deepak Pathak, Pathak’s adviser Prof. Trevor Darrell, and CS…
September 20, 2017
Ali Javey helps demonstrate efficient, light-powered production of fuel via artificial photosynthesis
Research co-authored by EE Prof. Ali Javey has demonstrated that the power of photosynthesis can be harnessed to convert carbon dioxide into fuels and alcohols at efficiencies far greater than plants. The achievement marks a significant milestone in the effort to move toward sustainable sources of fuel.  The study, titled…
September 18, 2017
Kathy Yelick Charts the Promise and Progress of Exascale Science
CS Prof. Katherine Yelick is the subject of an interview in HPCwire in which she discusses the promise and progress of exascale science.  The article follows on the heels of Yelick’s keynote address on “Breakthrough Science at the Exascale” at the ACM Europe Conference in Barcelona, Spain, earlier this month. …
« Previous  Page
1
…
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions