URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/26
News Archive - Page 26 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
September 29, 2022
Sophia Shao wins Intel Rising Star Award
EECS Assistant Prof. Sophia Shao is among the 15 recipients of the Intel Rising Star Award this year. Awarded annually, the Intel Rising Star Award (RSA) program supports early-career faculty whose research is groundbreaking and demonstrates the potential to disrupt industries. Recipients are chosen for “innovative teaching methods and for…
September 29, 2022
Raluca Ada Popa featured in People of ACM
CS Prof. Raluca Ada Popa was interviewed as a Featured ACM Member as part of the “People of ACM” bulletin. As the Co-Director of RISELab and SkyLab, two labs aiming to build secure intelligent systems for the cloud and for the sky of cloud, she spoke about her…
September 28, 2022
Michael I. Jordan wins inaugural World Laureates Association Prize
EECS and Statistics Prof. Michael I. Jordan has been named the inaugural winner of the World Laureates Association (WLA) Prize in Computer Science or Mathematics. Funded by Sequoia China and established in Shanghai in 2021, the WLA Prize aims to recognize and support eminent researchers and technologists worldwide for…
September 22, 2022
Ruzena Bajcsy receives Slovak Medal of Honor
EECS Prof. Emerita Ruzena Bajcsy has been awarded the Slovak Medal of Honor. Bajcsy was recognized for her scientific achievements, leading by example, and setting a positive image of the Slovak Republic abroad. The medal was presented at the Consulate in New York by Slovak President Zuzana Čaputová.
September 21, 2022
New institute combines machine learning and chemistry to tackle climate change
The Bakar Institute of Digital Materials for the Planet (BIDMaP), led by Chemistry Prof. Omar M. Yaghi, brings together CS Profs. Christian Borgs, Joseph Gonzalez, Jennifer Listgarten, Jennifer Chayes, and Kathy Yelick, along with faculty from the Department of Chemistry and Statistics, respectively, to affect climate change by combining machine…
September 16, 2022
Berkeley EECS continues to compete in US News & World Report rankings
Once again Berkeley Electrical Engineering ranked #1, and Computer Engineering ranked #2, in the 2022 US News and World Report graduate school rankings. EE tied with MIT and Stanford as the top graduate Electrical/Electronic/Communications Engineering program in the nation, while Computer Engineering tied in second place with Stanford after MIT.
September 12, 2022
IEEE award renamed in honor of Lotfi Zadeh
The IEEE Daniel E. Noble Award for Emerging Technologies has been renamed in honor of the late Lotfi Zadeh. Beginning in 2022, the award will be named the Lotfi A. Zadeh Award for Emerging Technologies. Prof. Zadeh was known as the “father of fuzzy logic.” Previously known as the Morris N.
September 9, 2022
Constance Chang-Hasnain wins 2022 Welker Award
EE alumna and EECS Prof. Emerita Constance Chang-Hasnain (Ph.D. ’87) has won the 2022 Welker Award at Compound Semiconductor Week (CSW). She was cited “For pioneering contributions to VCSEL photonics, nano-photonics and high contrast metastructures for optical communications and optical sensing.” Vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers, or VCSELs, are used in many…
August 31, 2022
CS Kickstart thrives amid return to in-person outreach
Now in its 11th consecutive year, CS Kickstart held its one-week computer science immersion program earlier this month, ushering in over 95 attendees to the program, a record turnout. The program is designed to introduce female-identifying first-year students to computer science at Berkeley and aims to add more diversity to…
August 25, 2022
Pieter Abbeel interviewed as Featured ACM Member
CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel has been interviewed as a Featured ACM Member. As part of the “People of ACM” bulletin, Abbeel details the groundbreaking work that led to his 2021 ACM Prize in Computing, and the direction of the field of AI and robotics in the warehousing industry and beyond.
« Previous  Page
1
…
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions