URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/wall-display/soda-news
Soda-news - EECS at Berkeley
Latest News
March 11, 2026
Eric Paulos elected to the ACM CHI Academy
The Association for Computing Machinery’s Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM SIGCHI) has elected Eric Paulos, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, to the ACM CHI Academy. Paulos is one of eleven individuals inducted to the Academy this year. The CHI Academy…
March 11, 2026
Sprawling new painting commemorates 150 years of women at UC Berkeley
The year 2020 marked the 150th anniversary of UC regents approving a resolution “that young ladies be admitted into the University on equal terms in all respects with young men.” The campus commemorated the anniversary with an extensive campus-wide history project that documented the legacy of women…
February 18, 2026
Aditi Krishnapriyan receives Department of Energy Early Career Award
Aditi Krishnapriyan, a faculty scientist in Berkeley Lab’s Applied Mathematics and Computational Research Division (AMCR) and assistant professor at UC Berkeley, has been awarded a prestigious 2025 U.S. Department of Energy Early Career Research Program (ECRP) award. At UC Berkeley, Krishnapriyan has faculty appointments in the Department…
February 18, 2026
Tyler Hou named 2026 Hertz Fellowship Finalist
Math and CS student Tyler Hou was named a finalist for the 2026 Hertz Fellowship, one of the most prestigious and competitive awards in the nation for doctoral students in applied sciences, mathematics, and engineering. Selected from a pool of over 1,450 applicants, Hou…
Media Mentions
February 9, 2026
AI research deluge: why one conference is asking authors to rank their own papers
Emma Pierson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, agrees that self-rankings are an “exciting possibility”. “You know which papers are your ‘baby’, which papers you really love,” she says. “I think the author’s own self-ranking would be one valuable source of input if you…
February 2, 2026
TechCrunch: A peek inside Physical Intelligence, the startup building Silicon Valley’s buzziest robot brains
“Think of it like ChatGPT, but for robots,” Sergey Levine tells me, gesturing toward the motorized ballet unfolding across the room.
January 20, 2026
11 things UC Berkeley AI experts are watching for in 2026
How will AI disrupt the labor market? What will deepfake videos mean for our understanding of truth? Are we in a bubble, and if so, will the bubble burst?
December 15, 2025
The Economist: The next version of the web will be built for machines, not humans
Dawn Song, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, says marketers may need to pitch not to people, but to “agent attention”.