URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/book/cory-iipp/correcting-hazards
V. Correcting Workplace Hazards - EECS at Berkeley
V. Correcting Workplace Hazards
Hazards discovered either as a result of a scheduled periodic inspection or during normal operations must be corrected by the supervisor in control of the work area, or by cooperation between the department in control of the work area and the supervisor of the employees working in that area. Supervisors of affected employees are expected to correct unsafe conditions as quickly as possible after discovery of a hazard, based on the severity of the hazard.
Specific procedures that can be used to correct hazards include but are not limited to the following:
Tagging unsafe equipment “Do Not Use Until Repaired,” and providing a list of alternatives for employees to use until the item is repaired
Stopping unsafe work practices and providing retraining on proper procedures before work resumes
Reinforcing and explaining the need for proper personal protective equipment and ensuring its availability
Barricading areas that have chemical spills or other hazards and reporting the hazardous conditions to a supervisor or Building Coordinator
Supervisors should use the “Hazard Correction Report” (IIPP Form 4) to document corrective actions, including projected and actual completion dates. If necessary, supervisors can seek assistance in developing appropriate corrective actions by submitting a “Report of Unsafe Condition” to the Safety Committee. If the Safety Committee requires assistance from other campus resources such as EH&S, PP-CS, or UCPD, these resources should be contacted immediately.
If an imminent hazard exists, work in the area should cease, and the appropriate supervisor must be contacted immediately. If the hazard cannot be immediately corrected without endangering employees or property, all personnel need to be removed from the area except those qualified and necessary to correct the condition. These qualified individuals will be equipped with necessary safeguards before addressing the situation.
< IV. Communicating Workplace Hazards
VI. Investigating Injuries and Illnesses >
View
Open Faculty Positions