URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/56
News Archive - Page 56 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
March 3, 2020
UC Berkeley ranked one of the best colleges for Electrical Engineering in 2020 by Gradreports
UC Berkeley ranked a very close second on Gradreports’ list of “25 Best Colleges for Electrical Engineering 2020.”  The rankings are based on the median salary of students who graduated with a B.S. in EE one year after college.  Graduates of MIT and Berkeley both earned a median salary of…
March 3, 2020
Accel Scholars offers industry-oriented opportunities for undergrads
The Accel Scholars program, a joint venture between Silicon Valley venture capital firm Accel and the EECS Department, was created to empower undergraduate engineering and computer science students by providing access to Silicon Valley leadership, personalized mentorship, and an industry-relevant curriculum that covers topics not generally taught in class— like how…
March 1, 2020
Largest gift in Berkeley’s history to fund new Data Science building
An anonymous donor has pledged $252 million to help fund the construction of a building for the newly christened Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS): it is the single largest gift in Berkeley’s history.  The new “Data Hub” will be located at the intersection of Hearst Avenue, Arch…
February 25, 2020
Women In Tech at Berkeley
The 4th Annual Women In Tech Symposium, part of the Women In Tech Initiative (WITI) will be held at UC Berkeley on Friday, March 6, 2020.  The theme will be “Reimagining Cybersecurity for All.”  Many members of the EECS community will be involved, including: alumna and Prof. Dawn Song (PhD…
February 25, 2020
Microrelays:  On the path to making bigger quantum computers
Research on Microrelays presented at the IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM) by Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu and alumna/graduate student, Xiaoer Hu (M.S. ’18), is highlighted in an IEEE Spectrum article titled “4 Ways to Make Bigger Quantum Computers.”  It is difficult to scale quantum computers because quantum-computer processors must operate…
February 24, 2020
Negative Capacitance research highlighted in celebration of 100 Years of Ferroelectricity
Negative Capacitance, a field of research pioneered by EECS Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin, is featured in a Nature Materials article celebrating “A century of ferroelectricity.”  Ferroelectricity is a characteristic of certain materials which have a spontaneous electric polarization that can be reversed by the application of an external electric field. Ferroelectric…
February 24, 2020
Researchers develop novel way to shrink light to detect ultra-tiny substances
EE Associate Prof. Boubacar Kanté and his graduate student Junhee Park have been profiled in a Berkeley Engineering article titled “Researchers develop novel way to shrink light to detect ultra-tiny substances.”  They are part of a team of researchers who have created light-based technology that can detect biological substances with…
February 23, 2020
Keeping classified information secret in a world of quantum computing
Computer Science and Global Studies double major, Jake Tibbetts, has published an article in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists titled “Keeping classified information secret in a world of quantum computing.”  Tibbetts, who is a research assistant at the LBNL Center for Global Security Research and a member of the…
February 19, 2020
New nonvolatile memory cells shrink circuits and speed searches
The work of Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin and grad student Ava Tan is featured in an article in the IEEE Spectrum titled “New Nonvolatile Memories Shrink Circuits That Search Fast.”  Salahuddin, a ferroelectric device pioneer, has been conducting work on a new kind of content-addressable memory cell that could speed searches and enable…
February 19, 2020
Leon Chua wins 2020 Julius Springer Prize
Prof. Emeritus Leon O. Chua has been awarded the 2020 Julius Springer Prize for Applied Physics.  Chua has contributed to cellular neural and nonlinear networks, nanoelectronics, nonlinear circuits and systems, nonlinear dynamics, bifurcation theory, and chaos theory. In 1971, he postulated a passive component named the memristor as the 4th passive…
« Previous  Page
1
…
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions