URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/124
News Archive - Page 124 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
December 20, 2016
Clark Nguyen selected to receive the 2017 Robert Bosch Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems Award
Prof. Clark Nguyen has been selected to receive the 2017 Robert Bosch Micro and Nano Electro Mechanical Systems Award. This award was established by the IEEE Electron Devices Society in 2014 to recognize and honor advances in the invention, design, and/or fabrication of micro or nano- electromechanical systems and/or devices. The…
December 19, 2016
Nicholas Weaver concludes “the Russians stole the data”
Alumnus Nicholas Weaver (CS B.A. ’95/ Ph.D. ’03), who now works at the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI) as a security expert, was interviewed by Leandra Bernstein of ABC 33/40 for an in-depth article titled Questions remain over Russian responsibility for passing stolen DNC emails to WikiLeaks.  “All the…
December 14, 2016
New ultrasonic sensors can improve security of fingerprint recognition on smartphones
EE Prof. Bernhard Boser is profiled in an article in the Cal Aggie titled “Fingerprint recognition on smartphones unsafe and hackable” in which he discusses a new ultrasonic imaging process developed at UC Berkeley and UC Davis to more securely protect personal information than current finger recognition technologies.  This…
December 14, 2016
Jacobs Hall receives LEED Platinum certification for sustainability
Jacobs Hall, home of the  Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation has received a Platinum certification from the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program.  LEED scores buildings on how well they meet various measures of sustainability and Platinum is the highest level of certification…
December 13, 2016
Jun-Yan Zhu creates algorithms for the artistically challenged
CS graduate student Jun-Yan Zhu (adviser: Alexei Efros) is the subject of an article in California Magazine titled “Paint by Numbers: Algorithms for the Artistically Challenged.”  Zhu and his team apply the tools of machine learning to computer graphics.  For example, in the team’s most recent project, they developed…
December 13, 2016
Valerie Taylor named ACM fellow
Alumna Valerie Taylor (EE M.S. ’86/Ph.D. ’91), now a computer science professor at Texas A&M University, has been named a 2016 Fellow by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM).  Taylor is one of 53 ACM members honored for their contributions to computer science. She is being lauded for her…
December 13, 2016
Computational Imaging proposal accepted for collaborative research initiative
A Computational Imaging research proposal submitted by EE Associate Prof. Laura Waller, EE Associate Prof. Michael Lustig, CS Assistant Prof. Ren Ng, CS Assistant Prof. Jonathan Ragan-Kelley, and CS Associate Prof. Benjamin Rechts has been accepted as part of a set of cross-disciplinary activities planned…
December 12, 2016
EECS students win four CRA outstanding undergraduate research awards
All four EECS undergraduates nominated for 2017 Computing Research Association (CRA) research awards were recognized this year.  EECS undergraduate Smitha Milli won the CRA Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Award for the female category, Jingyi Li won 2nd place nationally, receiving Runner-up in the female category, Ashvin Nair received Finalist recognition…
December 12, 2016
UC Berkeley is ranked #1 school for coding in the US
According to Business Insider, most college computer science rankings only include factors like the number of research papers published, global reputation, etc., while ignoring practical coding skills.  HackerRank, a free coding practice website that allows developers to hone their coding skills by solving challenges, launched a University Rankings Competition…
December 9, 2016
Tsu-Jae King Liu selected to receive  Aldert van der Ziel award
Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu has been selected to receive the Aldert van der Ziel award by the International Semiconductor Device Research Symposium- ISDRS 2016 van der Ziel Committee. This award is given for distinguished educational and research contributions to the field of electronic devices and materials. Past recipients of…
« Previous  Page
1
…
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions