URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/78
News Archive - Page 78 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 20, 2018
Q+A with Dean Tsu-Jae King Liu
EE Prof. and Dean of Engineering Tsu-Jae King Liu is the subject of an interview in the Berkeley Engineer.  She is the first female dean in the College of Engineering’s 150-year history and a pioneer in semiconductor devices and technology.  King Liu talks about her background and near-term goals, diversity…
November 19, 2018
Microrobots fly, walk and jump into the future
EE alumnus and Prof. Kris Pister (M.S.’89, Ph.D.’92), his grad student Daniel Drew, and research being done in the Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center (BSAC), are featured in a Berkeley Engineering articled titled “Microrobots fly, walk and jump into the future.”  Roughly the size and weight of a postage stamp,…
November 19, 2018
Study shows playing high school football changes the teenage brain
A research study led by EE Prof. Chunlei Liu (senior author) and postdoc Nan-Ji Gong (first author), which is the cover story of the November issue of Neurobiology of Disease, found that a single season of high school football may be enough to cause microscopic changes in the structure of…
November 19, 2018
Deep Learning Pioneer Bryan Catanzaro on the Importance of Research
EECS alumnus Bryan Catanzaro (Ph.D. ’11 advisor: Kurt Keutzer), the Vice President of Applied Deep Learning Research at NVIDIA, is one of the subjects of a Forbes series on the AI innovators “who have dedicated their life’s work to improving the human condition through technology advancements.”  Catanzaro has worked alongside…
November 19, 2018
Tsu-Jae King Liu inducted into 2019 Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame
EE Prof. and Dean of Engineering Tsu-Jae King Liu as been elected to the 2019 Silicon Valley Engineering Council (SVEC) Hall of Fame.  Inductees must have demonstrated significant engineering or technical achievements, provided significant guidance in new and developing fields of engineering-based technology, and/or have managed or directed an organization…
November 13, 2018
Skin-like sensor maps blood-oxygen levels anywhere in the body
A new flexible sensor developed by Berkeley EE researchers can map blood-oxygen levels over large areas of skin, tissue and organs, potentially giving doctors a new way to monitor healing wounds in real time.  The research group, which includes Prof. Ana Claudia Arias, Yasser Khan, Donggeon Han, Adrien Pierre, Jonathan…
November 13, 2018
Diane Greene makes Americas 50
CS alumnus Diane Greene (M.S. ’88), the CEO of Google Cloud, has been named to Data Economy’s list of Americas 50: The world’s first top 50 North, Central and South American influencers.  The list highlights “personalities who are leading data centres, cloud, edge computing and data through charting new innovations or…
November 13, 2018
UC Berkeley’s Fastest-Growing Class Is Data Science 101
The Wall Street Journal has published an article titled “UC Berkeley’s Fastest-Growing Class Is Data Science 101,” about the creation of the new Division of Data Science and Information at Berkeley.  It discusses the popular introductory course Data Sciences 101, the new Data Science major,  and how the field of…
November 8, 2018
Ming Wu to step down as faculty director of the NanoLab
EE Prof. Ming Wu will be stepping down as faculty director of the Berkeley Marvell Nanofabrication Laboratory (NanoLab) at the end of 2018.  He took up the position in 2008 after his predecessor, EE Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu, became associate dean of research at the College of Engineering.  At the…
November 7, 2018
Mike Nelson joins Xcalar as Chief Scientist
CS alumnus Mike Nelson (Ph.D. ’88, advisor: John Ousterhout), has become Chief Scientist at Xcalar, a fast-growing big data processing and virtual data warehouse platform.  While at Berkeley, Neslon was a key member of the team that developed the Sprite Distributed Operating System.  He was a fellow and one of…
« Previous  Page
1
…
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions