URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/65
News Archive - Page 65 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 5, 2019
GauGAN AI art tool wins two major awards at SIGGRAPH 2019 Real-Time Live Competition
A viral real-time AI art application, co-created by three current and former graduate students of CS Prof. Alexei Efros, has won two coveted awards–Best in Show and Audience Choice–at the SIGGRAPH 2019 Real-Time Live Competition.  The interactive application, called GauGAN, was co-created by Ph.D. candidate Taesung Park during a summer…
August 3, 2019
You can’t squash this roach-inspired robot
Research co-authored by grad student Justin Yim and EE Profs. Ron Fearing and Robert Full, among others, has resulted in the creation of a small cockroach-inspired robot so hardy that it can survive being crushed underfoot.  The robot, which is about the size of a large postage stamp, is made…
August 2, 2019
Jerome R. Singer has died
EECS and Biophysics Prof. Emeritus Jerome “Jay” R. Singer passed away on July 30, 2019 at age 97.   He became a pioneer in the field of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) when he and two of his students co-created the first practicable MRI apparatus (then called Nuclear Magnetic Resonance – NMR)…
August 2, 2019
Bill Kramer to Lead Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
CS alumnus Bill Kramer (Ph.D. 2008, advisors: David Culler and James Demmel) has been selected as the next director of the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC), a joint research center of Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh.  Kramer, currently project director and PI of the Blue Waters Project and the senior associate director for …
August 1, 2019
Valerie Taylor named 2019 Argonne Distinguished Fellow
EECS alumna Valerie Taylor (M.S. ’86/Ph.D. ’91, advisor: David Messerschmitt), currently the director of the Mathematics and Computer Science division of Argonne National Laboratory, has been named a 2019 Argonne Distinguished Fellow.  Distinguished Fellows hold the highest scientific and engineering rank at the laboratory.  Taylor, whose research focuses in the areas…
August 1, 2019
Kathy Yelick looks back and ahead
Kathy Yelick has announced that she will be stepping down as Associate Laboratory Director of the Computing Sciences organization at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), a position she has held for nine years. Yelick, who was also the Director of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) from 2008…
August 1, 2019
New tech breakthough will allow drones to fly for days
Prof. Eli Yablonovitch is the co-author of a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) that describes a groundbreaking discovery which has allowed researchers to raise the efficiency of thermophotovoltaics from 23% (where it has stayed for 15 years) to an unprecedented 29%. This ultralight alternative…
July 24, 2019
Leon Chua becomes Celebrated Member of EDS
Prof. Emeritus Leon O. Chua has been named a Celebrated Member of the IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS), an honor which recognizes “Fundamental Contributions to the Field of Electron Devices for the Benefit of Humanity.”  An IEEE Fellow since 1974, Chua is just the 9th person to join this elite…
July 22, 2019
Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli and Scott Shenker named Distinguished Fellows of the International Engineering and Technology Institute
Professors Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli and Scott Shenker have been named Distinguished Fellows of the International Engineering and Technology Institute (IETI) for 2019.  They are among 15 professors elected this year, joining well-known experts from all over the world, including Nobel Prize and Turing Award Laureates. Founded in 2015, IETI is a non-profit organization that…
July 17, 2019
Wymbo app seeks to notify students about events and opportunities at UC Berkeley
Recent CS alumnus Shawn Magee (B.A. ’19) and Haas student Raja Riahi are developing an app called Wymbo to help UC Berkeley students navigate the campus’s many events and activities.  They co-founded Wymbo inside Berkeley startup accelerator SkyDeck as a discovery platform:  students choose what types of subjects they’re interested…
« Previous  Page
1
…
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions