URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/artificial-intelligence-ai/page/2
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Archives - Page 2 of 5 - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Artificial Intelligence (AI)
July 21, 2025
Four EECS Faculty win inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards
EECS Assistant Professors Natacha Crooks, Sagar Karandikar, Amy Pavel, and Rishabh Iyer have been selected to receive inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards. This prestigious award recognizes early-career faculty whose research is advancing the frontiers of machine learning and systems. Each award includes $100,000 in unrestricted research funding.
July 18, 2025
Alvin Cheung receives ACSIC Rock Star Award
CS Professor Alvin Cheung has been awarded the Rock Star Award for Mid-Career Investigators by the Association of Chinese Scholars in Computing (ACSIC). This prestigious award recognizes individuals who have made outstanding contributions to computing within 12 years of completing their most recent computing-related degree. The ACSIC Rock Star Award…
July 14, 2025
Jennifer Chayes recognized with 2025 Richard Tapia Award for efforts to diversify computing
Jennifer Chayes, EECS Professor and Dean of the College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) at UC Berkeley, has been named the recipient of the 2025 Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science, and Diversifying Computing.
July 8, 2025
EECS researchers win MLArchSys Best Paper Award
EECS Professors Alvin Cheung and Sophia Shao, and their students Charles Hong and Sahil Batia, have won the Best Paper Award at the Machine Learning for Computer Architecture and Systems (MLArchSys) Workshop, held at ISCA 2025. Their award-winning paper, titled “Autocomp: LLM-Driven Code Optimization for Tensor Accelerators”, presents a novel…
June 27, 2025
EECS researchers win Best Robot Learning Paper Award at IEEE ICRA 2025
Professors Ken Goldberg, John Kubiatowicz, and their team of students and collaborators: Kaiyuan Chen, Letian Fu, David Huang, Yanxiang Zhang, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Huang Huang, Kush Hari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ted Xiao, and Pannag R Sanketi, have received the Best Robot Learning Paper Award at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics…
June 26, 2025
Berkeley engineers develop customizable, 3D-printed robot for tech newbies
As an undergraduate student, Yufeng Chi (B.S.’23 EECS) was captivated by humanoid and legged robots. Eager to learn more, he would watch YouTube videos and dive into class projects, but getting hands-on experience and tinkering on his own was not easy. “I was interested in building my own version of…
June 24, 2025
Fast Company: This Perplexity cofounder wants to help AI breakthroughs graduate from university labs
Andy Konwinski (CS Ph.D. 2012), with help from Google’s Jeff Dean and other AI luminaries, has launched a new institute to help turn promising academic AI breakthroughs into open-source tools, startups, and real-world products while fostering an “AI for good” research culture.
June 12, 2025
May the Best Bot Win
Started as student side project, Chatbot Arena is now the AI industry’s scoreboard—and a $100 million startup
May 21, 2025
Stuart Russell elected as Fellow of the Royal Society
EECS Professor Stuart Russell has been elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society, the UK’s national academy of sciences.  Ninety researchers from around the world were named in this year’s cohort of fellows. “Their achievements represent the very best of scientific endeavour, from basic discovery to research with…
April 17, 2025
Broadcom expands support for UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab
Following VMware’s long-standing sponsorship, Broadcom is deepening its collaboration with UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab through a $4 million gift. This expanded collaboration reinforces a shared commitment to innovation and interoperability, building on both organizations’ histories of addressing complex industry challenges through cutting-edge research. The Sky Computing Lab, and its…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions