URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/k-12-outreach
K-12 outreach Archives - EECS at Berkeley
K-12 outreach
May 28, 2025
Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey win the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award
EECS Teaching Professors Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey have been awarded the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) announced today in a press release. Garcia and Harvey were recognized “for their advocacy of and advances in education to bring the beauty and joy…
May 17, 2023
Jelani Nelson wins ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award
CS Professor Jelani Nelson has won the ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics. The biannual award is given to those who have made a “significant contribution through the use of computing technology.” Nelson is cited “for founding and developing AddisCoder, a nonprofit organization…
March 30, 2023
Berkeley EECS and BART celebrate Women’s History Month
In honor of Women’s History Month, Berkeley EECS and BART worked together to Embrace Equity in STEM. Over the course of 50 years, both organizations have strived to be engines of societal change and social mobility, and they continue to do so today: BART, by providing fast, reliable transportation to…
March 20, 2023
Berkeley EECS leads strong showing at SIGCSE
Berkeley EECS led a strong showing at the ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) Technical Symposium. SIGCSE, held last week in Toronto, Canada, is the premier venue for innovations in CS education and pedagogy. The event boasts attendance of over 1000 computer scientists from around the world,…
August 31, 2022
CS Kickstart thrives amid return to in-person outreach
Now in its 11th consecutive year, CS Kickstart held its one-week computer science immersion program earlier this month, ushering in over 95 attendees to the program, a record turnout. The program is designed to introduce female-identifying first-year students to computer science at Berkeley and aims to add more diversity to…
January 18, 2022
Tuff Pupil: A Hip Hop Series about Global STEM Issues
CS Profs. John Kubiatowicz and Ken Goldberg, along with Berkeley’s Director of Research IT, Ken Lutz, have collaborated with the Lawrence Hall of Science (LHS) and the Lawrence Berkeley Lab (LBL) to create an animated series called “Tuff Pupil” which teaches children, ages 7 to 10,  about important cyber security concepts…
July 13, 2021
Deanna Gelosi wins Best Full Paper Award at ACM IDC 2021
“PlushPal: Storytelling with Interactive Plush Toys and Machine Learning,” co-authored by CS Masters student Deanna Gelosi (advisor: Dan Garcia), has won the Best Full Paper Award at the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Interaction Design for Children (IDC) conference 2021.  IDC is “the premier international conference for researchers, educators and…
February 5, 2021
Rediet Abebe and Jelani Nelson to participate in U-M Africa Week
CS Prof. Jelani Nelson and Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe will be participating on a panel about the “Role of Computing in Africa’s Economic Future” at the University of Michigan Africa Week conference on Tuesday, February 16th, from 9:30 am to 10:45 (EST).  U-M Africa Week brings together “thought leaders…
December 17, 2020
Ken and Blooma Goldberg show you “How to Train Your Robot”
A 15-minute video version of the children’s book “How to Train Your Robot,” written by CS Prof. Ken Goldberg and his daughter, Blooma, has been released by the CITRIS Banatao Institute.  Aimed  at children ages six to eleven, it tells the story of a group of 4th graders who decide…
November 19, 2019
Hopper-Dean awards EECS department $2M for diversity initiatives
The Hopper-Dean Foundation has awarded the EECS department $2 million over two years to support diversity initiatives in computer science.  The gift follows the success of a $1M grant awarded by Hopper-Dean in 2016 to include and support more CS students from underrepresented groups at Berkeley.   The grant will fund…
1
2
3
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions