URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/59
News Archive - Page 59 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
December 10, 2019
Trevor Darrell joins checkout-free company Grabango
EECS Prof. Trevor Darrell has been appointed chief scientist at Grabango, a provider of checkout-free technology for brick-and-mortar stores.  Darrell is an expert in computer vision, machine learning and perception-based human computer interfaces, and leads the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (BAIR).  He helped develop Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding…
December 9, 2019
Jaijeet Roychowdhury and Tianshi Wang win 2019 Nokia Bell Labs Prize
EECS Prof. Jaijeet Roychowdhury and his graduate student Tianshi Wang have won First Place in the 2019 Nokia Bell Labs Competition for their work on  “A Classical Spin on Quantum Computing.”  The pair have created a new type of processor element that will be significantly more efficient in computing the answers…
December 4, 2019
Student research projects to be highlighted at Data Science Showcase
The Data Science Showcase, which will highlight the amazing ways that students are using data science to advance discovery and impact across campus and beyond in over 30+ projects, will be held this Thursday, December 5, from 12 noon to 3:30 pm in Sutardja Dai Hall.  The Showcase will kick…
December 3, 2019
Chenming Hu wins 2020 IEEE Medal of Honor
EECS Prof. Chenming Hu has been awarded the 2020 IEEE Medal of Honor, the highest honor awarded by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).  The medal is presented when “a candidate is identified as having made a particular contribution that forms a clearly exceptional addition to the science and technology…
December 3, 2019
Michael Jordan wins 2020 IEEE John von Neumann Medal
CS Prof. Michael I. Jordan has won the prestigious John von Neumann Medal from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).  The award was established in 1990 to acknowledge “outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology.”    Jordan, who was ranked as the world’s most influential computer scientist in 2016…
November 20, 2019
Katherine Yelick wins Outstanding Leadership in HPC Award
EECS Prof. Katherine Yelick was honored with an HPCwire Editor’s Choice Award for Outstanding Leadership in HPC at the 2019 International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis (SC19).  Yelick, who serves as the Associate Laboratory Director for Computing Sciences at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab) and…
November 19, 2019
Hopper-Dean awards EECS department $2M for diversity initiatives
The Hopper-Dean Foundation has awarded the EECS department $2 million over two years to support diversity initiatives in computer science.  The gift follows the success of a $1M grant awarded by Hopper-Dean in 2016 to include and support more CS students from underrepresented groups at Berkeley.   The grant will fund…
November 19, 2019
Mark McKelvin wins BEYA Most Promising Engineer in Industry Award
EECS  alumnus Mark Lee McKelvin Jr (M.S.  ’05, Ph.D. ’11, advisor: Alberto L. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli), has won the 2020 BEYA (Black Engineer of the Year Award) STEM Most Promising Engineer in Industry Award.  The award, which is sponsored by Career Communications Group (publisher of “US Black Engineer and Information Technology magazine”) is…
November 18, 2019
NTT Research partners with the Simons Institute
NTT Research has announced that it has entered into a three-year Industrial Partnership with the UC Berkeley Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing.  The partnership, which will extend from September  2019 through August  2021, will enable NTT Research’s Cryptography and Information Security (CIS) Lab to join all Simons Institute…
November 18, 2019
Ashwin Pananjady wins inaugual IMS Lawrence Brown PhD Student Award
EECS graduate student Ashwin Pananjady (advisors: Martin Wainwright and Thomas Courtade) is one of the three inaugural recipients of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Lawrence D. Brown PhD Student Award.  Pananjady, who studies fundamental problems spanning statistics, information theory, optimization, and machine learning, will present his research at a…
« Previous  Page
1
…
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions