URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/112
News Archive - Page 112 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
July 27, 2017
Stuart Russell is featured speaker at IP EXPO Europe
CS Prof. Stuart Russell will be speaking on the use of AI, its long-term future and its relation to humanity, at the 2017 IP EXPO Europe showcase.  IP EXPO Europe is an information technology trade show held annually in England which “brings together some of the biggest names, in their…
July 27, 2017
Alexi Efros’s team offers custom colorization using deep neural networks
CS Prof. Alexei Efros (also alumnus, Ph.D. ’03) and his team have developed a new technique, leveraging deep neural networks and AI, to allow novices–even those with limited artistic ability–to quickly add realistic color to black and white images.  “The goal of our previous project was to just get…
July 26, 2017
EECS faculty envision California’s next-gen infrastructure
EE Profs Claire Tomlin,  Costas Spanos and Connie Chang-Hasnain, and CS Prof. David Culler, are featured in a Berkeley Engineer article titled “Smart moves: California’s next-gen infrastructure,” which describes current UC Berkeley research projects that promise to transform the way we live.  “What’s enabling these infrastructure changes is our…
July 26, 2017
Amazing Salto-1P is jumping longer, faster and higher than ever
Bioinspired robot, Salto-1P, is featured in an IEEE Spectrum article titled “Salto-1P Is the Most Amazing Jumping Robot We’ve Ever Seen.”  Born in Prof. Ronald Fearing’s Biomimetic Millisystems Lab, Salto-1P is the most recent incarnation of the Saltatorial Locomotion on Terrain Obstacles (Salto) robot which was pronounced the…
July 26, 2017
Somayeh Sojoudi appointed EECS Assistant Professor in Residence
Somayeh Sojoudi has been officially…
July 24, 2017
Justine Sherry wins the 2016 ACM SIGCOMM Doctoral Dissertation Award
CS alumna Justine Sherry (M.S. ’12/Ph.D. ’16 advisor: Sylvia Ratnasamy) has won the ACM SIGCOMM Doctoral Dissertation Award for Outstanding PhD Thesis in Computer Networking and Data Communication.  Justine’s thesis was on “Middleboxes as a Cloud Service,” and brought the benefits of cloud computing to the networking domain.  Justine is…
July 20, 2017
“Earable” 3D-printed ear-mounted sensors will monitor body’s core temperature
EE Prof. Ali Javey and his research into “Earables,” are profiled in a Digital Trends article titled 3D printed ear-mounted wearable will Monitor your body’s core temperature.  Earables represent a class of ‘structural electronics’ where sensors and electronics are embedded in the fabricated structure itself.  “Monitoring core body temperature…
July 20, 2017
Rikky Muller takes on the challenge of reverse-engineering the brain
EE Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller will make a presentation on the theme of Reverse-Engineering the Brain at this year’s Global Grand Challenges Summit (GGCS).  Muller is co-founder of Cortera Neurotechnologies, a company which designs medical devices for the treatment of incurable neurological conditions. “We can use devices that…
July 18, 2017
Lauren Barghout Joins Last Studio Standing as Chief Vision Scientist
Laura Barghout, a visiting scholar at the Berkeley Initiative for Soft Computing (BISC), has been hired as Chief Vision Scientist of Last Studio Standing, the largest hand-drawn animation studio in the Western Hemisphere.  Barghout invented a Gestalt-based fuzzy inference system and labeling technique that is used commercially in…
July 18, 2017
Aviad Rubinstein helps show that game players won’t necessarily find a Nash equilibrium
CS graduate student Aviad Rubinstein (advisor: Christos Papadimitriou)  is featured in a Quanta Magazine article titled “In Game Theory, No Clear Path to Equilibrium,” which describes the results of his paper on game theory proving that no method of adapting strategies in response to previous games will converge efficiently…
« Previous  Page
1
…
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions