URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/103
News Archive - Page 103 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 9, 2017
Embodied Intelligence raises $7M in seed round
Start-up Embodied Intelligence,  founded by Prof. Pieter Abbeel and his grad students Peter Chen, Rocky Duan, and Tianhao Zhang, raised $7M in a seed round yesterday led by venture capital firm Amplify Partners.  VC firms Lux Capital, SV Angels, FreeS, 11.2 Capital, and A. Capital also supplied capital.  Embodied Intelligence…
November 8, 2017
David Sontag named to GNS Healthcare Strategic Advisory Board
CS alumnus David Sontag (B.A. ’05), now an assistant professor of EECS at MIT, has been appointed to the Strategic Advisory Board of GNS Healthcare, one of the world’s leading precision medicine companies.  Sontag is also the Hermann L.F. von Helmholtz Career Development Professor in the Institute for Medical Engineering…
November 8, 2017
Students help debunk fake news surrounding Texas shooting
EECS junior Rohan Phadte and fellow student Ash Bhat launched their Chrome browser extension, Botcheck.me, on Halloween and it is already proving invaluable.   The app determines whether news posts on Twitter likely came from real people or were generated by a bot.  When an armed gunman attacked the congregants…
November 8, 2017
Barbara Simon’s fight for paper ballots
CS alumna Barbara Simons (Ph.D. ’81) is the subject of an article in The Atlantic titled “The Computer Scientist Who Prefers Paper,” which explores her conviction that there is only one safe voting technology: paper ballots.  Simons, a pioneer at IBM Research, spent years trying to warn the public…
November 7, 2017
Students learn to think like hackers for ‘cyberwar’ course
CS students enrolled in CS 194, an experimental “cyberwar” course led by Prof. Doug Tygar,  have joined forces with the white hat hackers at HackerOne, a vulnerability coordination and bug bounty platform.  This is the first time that HackerOne–which connects hackers with tech companies, private businesses and federal agencies to…
November 7, 2017
EECS-affiliated startup uses virtual reality to show robots how to perform
The start-up Embodied Intelligence and its founders, Prof. Pieter Abbeel and grad students Peter Chen, Rocky Duan, and Tianhao Zhang, are the focus of two news articles: one from the New York Times titled “A.I. Researchers Leave Elon Musk Lab to Begin Robotics Start-Up,” and one from Berkeley News…
November 6, 2017
Case studies in forward thinking: Pieter Abbeel, Claire Tomlin, Alexandre Bayen, Ken Goldberg, Ren Ng, and Ana Claudia Arias
Six EECS faculty are profiled in a Berkeley Engineering article titled “Case studies in forward thinking.”  Pieter Abbeel’s vision of the future is one of goal-oriented AI, where machines are learning responsibly.  Claire Tomlin envisions a future of airspace management, where intelligent robots can quickly and safely react to…
November 6, 2017
Dan Garcia praises educators working to expand CS learning in Alabama’s schools
Teaching Prof. Dan Garcia is quoted in a WBRC Fox 6 News article  which discusses how a group of Alabama teachers are working to expand computer science education opportunities for students in rural Alabama and inner-city Birmingham.  Garcia, who was part of the 2017 Alabama Teachers Computer Science Summit at…
November 6, 2017
Pieter Abbeel on building A.I. that can build A.I.
Prof. Pieter Abbeel is featured in a New York Times article titled “Building A.I. That Can Build A.I.,” about how Google and others, in competition for a small pool of qualified researchers, are looking for automated ways to deal with a shortage of artificial intelligence experts.   The key might be…
November 3, 2017
EECS-affiliated team develops new, ultrafast method for electrically controlling magnetism in certain metals
A UC Berkeley/UC Riverside research group that includes Prof. Jeffrey Bokor, Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin, postdoc Charles-Henri Lambert, postdoctoral fellow Jon Gorchon, and EE graduate student Akshay Pattabi have developed a new, ultrafast method for electrically controlling magnetism in certain metals, a breakthrough that could lead to greatly increased performance…
« Previous  Page
1
…
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions