URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/five-projects-led-eecs-faculty-win-ai-energy-and-climate-security-awards
Five projects led by EECS faculty win AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards - EECS at Berkeley
Five projects led by EECS faculty have won C3.ai Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards. The awards recognize projects that are using AI techniques and digital transformation to advance energy efficiency and lead the way to a lower-carbon, higher-efficiency economy that will ensure energy and climate security.  “C3.ai DTI selects research proposals that inspire cooperative research and advance machine learning and other AI subdisciplines. Projects are peer-reviewed on the basis of scientific merit, prior accomplishments of the principal investigator and co-principal investigators, the use of AI, machine learning, data analytics, and cloud computing in the research project, and the suitability for testing the methods at scale.” Each project was awarded $100,000 to $250,000, for an initial period of one year.  The winning proposals were:
Offline Reinforcement Learning for Energy-Efficient Power Grids  –  Sergey Levine , Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences We propose to develop offline RL algorithms to incorporate real-world data in training an RL agent to reduce emissions associated with running an electrical grid.
Sharing Mobile Energy Storage: Platforms and Learning Algorithms  –  Kameshwar Poolla , Cadence Design Systems Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering This proposal aims to design, validate, and test platforms and learning algorithms for mobile storage applications, which can simultaneously serve the role of generation (supplying energy) and distribution (reticulating energy).
Reinforcement Learning for a Resilient Electric Power System  –  Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli , Edgar L. and Harold H. Buttner Chair of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Harnessing the potential of AI techniques to make the power system resilient against such extreme cases is crucial. We propose to develop AI-based methods, and corresponding testing strategies, to achieve this goal.
Affordable Gigaton-Scale Carbon Sequestration: Navigating Autonomous Seaweed Growth Platforms by Leveraging Complex Ocean Currents and Machine Learning  –  Claire Tomlin , Charles A. Desoer Chair in the College of Engineering A promising approach to carbon sequestration utilizes seaweed, which fixates dissolved CO2 into biomass. Floating platforms that autonomously grow and deposit seaweed could scale this natural process to the open ocean, where the carbon is confined for millennia.
Interpretable Machine Learning Models to Improve Forecasting of Extreme-Weather-Causing Tropical Monster Storms  – Da Yang, Faculty Scientist, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and  Bin Yu , Chancellor’s Distinguished Professor and Class of 1936 Second Chair Departments of Statistics and Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences We propose to develop interpretable, machine-learning (ML) models to forecast the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) — the Storm King in Earth’s tropics.
Categories
Faculty
Honors
Research
View
Open Faculty Positions