URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/cyber-physical-systems-and-design-automation-cpsda
Cyber-Physical Systems and Design Automation (CPSDA) Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Cyber-Physical Systems and Design Automation (CPSDA)
July 8, 2025
EECS researchers win MLArchSys Best Paper Award
EECS Professors Alvin Cheung and Sophia Shao, and their students Charles Hong and Sahil Batia, have won the Best Paper Award at the Machine Learning for Computer Architecture and Systems (MLArchSys) Workshop, held at ISCA 2025. Their award-winning paper, titled “Autocomp: LLM-Driven Code Optimization for Tensor Accelerators”, presents a novel…
July 7, 2025
EECS Researchers win Most Influential Paper Award from Design Automation Conference
EECS researchers Jonathan Bachrach, John Wawrzynek, Krste Asanovic, and their students and collaborators Huy Vo, Brian Richards, Yunsup Lee, Andrew Waterman, and Rimas Aviženis have received the Design Automation Conference’s (DAC) Most Influential Paper Award for the decade 2010–2020.Their groundbreaking paper, “Chisel: Constructing Hardware in a Scala Embedded Language” (2012),…
June 27, 2025
Sagar Karandikar wins 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award
EECS Assistant Professor Sagar Karandikar has been awarded the 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award. This prestigious honor recognizes exceptional doctoral research in the field of computer architecture.Karandikar was recognized “for advancing the state-of-the-art in agile hardware/software co-design tools and deploying them at a hyperscaler to architect custom…
June 27, 2025
EECS researchers win Best Robot Learning Paper Award at IEEE ICRA 2025
Professors Ken Goldberg, John Kubiatowicz, and their team of students and collaborators: Kaiyuan Chen, Letian Fu, David Huang, Yanxiang Zhang, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Huang Huang, Kush Hari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ted Xiao, and Pannag R Sanketi, have received the Best Robot Learning Paper Award at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics…
June 26, 2025
Prabal Dutta named Ohio State Distinguished Alumni
Prabal Dutta, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley, has been awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award for Academic Excellence from the College of Engineering at The Ohio State University. This award honors alumni who have demonstrated significant achievement in academia through contributions to teaching, research, or education.
December 19, 2023
Alexandre Bayen named CITRIS director
Alexandre M. Bayen, Liao-Cho Innovation Endowed Chair and professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences and of civil and environmental engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and associate provost for the Berkeley Space Center, has been appointed the director of the Center for Information Technology…
View
Open Faculty Positions