URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/ee
EE Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Division: EE
February 17, 2026
Three UC Berkeley EECS faculty named 2026 Sloan Fellows
Three early-career faculty in the UC Berkeley Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) – Yuan Cao, Sarah E. Chasins, and John Wright – have been awarded prestigious 2026 Sloan Research Fellowships.
February 13, 2026
In Memoriam: Beresford Parlett (1932–2026)
Beresford Parlett, a pioneer in numerical analysis and a foundational figure in the history of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS), died on Saturday, Feb. 7. He was 93. Parlett held a joint appointment in the Department of Mathematics and the EECS, representing the…
January 29, 2026
Lensless imaging redefined  by information theory
Traditional cameras rely on bulky glass lenses to focus light into human-interpretable images. However, a new generation of “lensless” imagers is stripping away the glass, replacing it with thin optical masks and sophisticated algorithms. While these systems promise to make cameras thinner and more versatile, designing the…
December 17, 2025
Somayeh Sojoudi elevated to IEEE Fellow
Somayeh Sojoudi, Associate Professor-in-Residence of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and Mechanical Engineering, has been named an IEEE Fellow in the class of 2026 “for contributions to optimization and learning techniques for complex systems.” The IEEE Fellow distinction is the highest grade of membership…
December 10, 2025
The 2025 EECS Distinguished Alumni
The EECS Department is proud to present the 2025 Distinguished Alumni Awards in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. The Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences has established a Distinguished Alumni Award to recognize valuable contributions made by the distinguished alumni of Berkeley to the fields of Electrical Engineering and…
December 8, 2025
Serina Chang named in Forbes 30 Under 30
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, a rising star in AI and computational health research, has been named to Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in the healthcare category, a recognition reserved for individuals under 30 who are making significant strides in health, technology, and social impact.
December 5, 2025
Rahul Iyer and Yicheng Zhu win PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk Award
Dr. Rahul Iyer and Dr. Yicheng Zhu, members of EECS Professor Robert Pilawa Podgurski’s research group, have received the PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk Award for their outstanding doctoral research and presentations at the IEEE Power Electronics Society (PELS) conference. The PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk…
November 17, 2025
Sayeef Salahuddin receives James C. McGroddy Prize for New Materials
Sayeef Salahuddin, the TSMC Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, was awarded the 2026 James C. McGroddy Prize for New Materials “for the discovery of ferroelectricity in ultra thin hafnium based oxides and their implementation in microelectronic devices.”…
November 12, 2025
UC Berkeley’s introductory machine learning course gets optimized for the AI age
As artificial intelligence technology continues advancing at a breakneck pace, faculty at UC Berkeley are optimizing computer science courses to keep undergraduate students informed and prepared for changing careers in the tech industry and beyond.
November 6, 2025
Dawn Song selected as an AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences
Professor Dawn Song was selected as a 2025 AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences. The fellowship honors researchers advancing responsible innovation and the development of AI that benefits humanity. This year’s cohort includes 28 researchers from eight countries who will receive more than…
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
85
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions