URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/75
News Archive - Page 75 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
January 17, 2019
Lydia Liu wins inaugural Ada Lovelace Fellowship
CS grad student Lydia Liu (advisers: Michael Jordan and Moritz Hardt) has won the inaugural Microsoft Research Ada Lovelace Fellowship.  The new three-year fellowship is for PhD students at North American universities who are members of groups underrepresented in computing and pursuing research aligned to the topics carried out by…
January 17, 2019
Clever clumsiness: A self-taught walking robot
A group of researchers at UC Berkeley (including EE Prof. Sergey Levine, grad student Tuomas Haarnoja and undergraduate researcher Aurick Zhou) and Google Brain have used maximum-entropy reinforcement learning to make a quadrupedal robot teach itself to walk.   It taught iself through trial and error in a mere…
January 17, 2019
‘Ambidextrous’ robots could dramatically speed e-commerce
CS Prof. Ken Goldberg and members of the AUTOLAB including postdoc Jeffrey Mahler (Ph.D. ’18), grad students Matthew Matl and Michael Danielczuk, and undergraduate researcher Vishal Satish, have published a paper in Science Robotics which presents new algorithms to compute robust robot pick points, enabling robot grasping of a diverse…
January 17, 2019
Rikky Muller named 2019-2020 IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Distinguished Lecturer
EE Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller has been named an IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society (SSCS) Distinguished Lecturer (DL) for the two year term of 2019-2020.  SSCS DLs are experts in current integrated circuit technologies who are chosen to speak at chapter meetings and regional seminars because of their skills as deeply…
January 15, 2019
Researchers capture an image of negative capacitance in action
For the first time ever, an international team of researchers–led by Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin–imaged the microscopic state of negative capacitance. This novel result provides researchers with fundamental, atomistic insight into the physics of negative capacitance, which could have far-reaching consequences for energy-efficient electronics.  “The upshot is that the opposite relation…
January 14, 2019
Pulkit Agrawal, Jacob Andreas, and Cathy Wu join MIT faculty
CS alumni Pulkit Agrawal (M.S. ’14/Ph.D. ’18, adviser: Jitendra Malik) and Jacob Andreas (Ph.D. ’18, adviser: Daniel Klein ) will join the MIT Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,  and EE alumna Cathy Wu (Ph.D. ’18, adviser: Alexandre Bayen)  will join the MIT Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,…
January 14, 2019
SinBerBEST 2 sweeps Building and Environment Best Paper Awards
Research collaboration between Singapore–Berkeley Building Efficiency and Sustainability in the Tropics (SinBerBEST 2 — part of the Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore center) led by EE Prof. Costas Spanos, and UC Berkeley’s Center for the Built Environment (CBE) resulted in three 2018 Building and Environment Best Paper Awards.  The…
January 11, 2019
Cathy Wu wins CUTC’s Milton Pikarsky Memorial Award
Recent EE alumna Cathy Wu (Ph.D. ’18, adviser: Alexandre Bayen) has won the Council of University Transportation Centers (CUTC)’s Milton Pikarsky Memorial Award.  This honor, which recognizes the best Doctoral dissertation in the field of science and technology in transportation studies each year, was awarded for Wu’s dissertation titled “Learning…
January 9, 2019
Ken Thompson to be inducted into 2019 National Inventors Hall of Fame
CS alumnus Ken Thompson (B.S.‘65/M.S.‘66) is a member of the 2019 class of inductees into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for creating the UNIX Operating System. Thompson and Dennis…
January 1, 2019
Wireless ‘pacemaker for the brain’ could be new standard treatment for neurological disorders
A new neurostimulator, described in a paper co-authored by EE Prof. Jan Rabaey, Prof. Jose Carmena, Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller, grad students Andy Zhou, George Alexandrov and Ali Moin, and alumnus Fred Burghardt (B.S. ’92/M.S. ’94), in the journal Nature Biomedical Engineering, works like a “pacemaker for the brain” to…
« Previous  Page
1
…
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions