URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/96
News Archive - Page 96 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
February 21, 2018
Dan Wallach to testify about election security and voting machines in Texas
EECS alumnus Dan Wallach (B.S. ’93) will testify before the Texas Senate Select Committee on Election Security at a hearing about recent election irregularities in Texas, a review of voting security protocols and the responsibilities and duties of members of the Electoral College.  Specifically, the hearing will examine the use…
February 21, 2018
Steve Wozniak emphasizes people over technology
CS alumnus Steve Wozniak (B.A.’86) was the inaugural speaker in the Business Thought Leader series at the University of South Florida College of Business.  He answered pre-submitted questions that asked for his best advice for college students and what he might tell his younger self.  He shared his “smiles minus…
February 20, 2018
UC Berkeley wins 2018 Fiesta Bowl Overwatch Collegiate National Championship
For the second year running, UC Berkeley has won the Fiesta Bowl Overwatch Collegiate National Championship, sweeping UC Irvine 3-0.  CS majors Kevin “SlurpeeThief” Royston and Gandira “Syeikh” Prahandika were on the Berkeley team, which battled in front of a sold-out crowd at the game in Tempe, Arizona, the first partnership…
February 20, 2018
Security for data analytics – gaining a grip on the two-edged sword
Prof. Dawn Song and graduate student Noah Johnson are taking a new approach to enable organizations to follow tight data security and privacy policies while enabling flexible data analysis, as well as machine learning for analysts.  Working with Uber, they tested their system using a dataset of 8 million queries…
February 20, 2018
Small robots with smart bodies can safely bump into obstacles
Prof. Ron Fearing’s team have modified a palm-size robot with a soft, roach-like exoskeleton and six legs, called the Dynamic Autonomous Sprawled Hexapod (DASH), to use the momentum of a head-on crash to tip itself upward to climb a wall.  Kaushik Jayaram (Ph.D. Robotics/Biology ’14, advisor: Robert Full) discovered how…
February 20, 2018
Teresa Meng on winning the game in a male-dominated industry
EECS distinguished alumna Teresa Meng (M.S. ’85/Ph.D. ’88) is the subject of an article in the EE Times about a keynote presentation she recently gave at the  International Solid State Circuits Conference (ISSCC) on sexism in her profession.   Meng, who was the first female professor in electrical engineering…
February 16, 2018
Anca Dragan and Raluca Popa win Sloan Research Fellowships
Assistant Profs. Anca Dragan and Raluca Ada Popa have been awarded 2018 Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowships.  They are among 126 early-career scholars who represent the most promising scientific researchers working today. Their achievements and potential place them among the next generation of scientific leaders in the U.S. and Canada.
February 14, 2018
Computer Vision to Protect Patients — and Budgets
Prof. Alexandre Bayen and PhD student Pulkit Agrawal developed a computer vision-based system to help memory care centers monitor patient falls and to reduce them where possible.  State regulations require an MRI of the head any time a patient suffers an unwitnessed fall, and about a fourth of all Alzheimer’s-related…
February 12, 2018
Berkeley’s HKN Mu Chapter wins IEEE-HKN Outstanding Chapter Award
UC Berkeley’s Eta Kappa Nu (HKN) Mu Chapter has won the 2016-17 IEEE-HKN Outstanding Chapter Award.  The Berkeley Mu Chapter of HKN, the the national Electrical and Computer Engineering honor society, is among the most active engineering societies on campus and provides many services to the undergraduate student community including…
February 8, 2018
Edward Lee awarded Berkeley Citation
Prof. Edward Lee is a 2018 recipient of the Berkeley Citation, which was awarded at the 2018 Berkeley Annual Research Symposium (BEARS).  The Berkeley Citation is awarded to distinguished individuals whose contributions to UC Berkeley go beyond the call of duty and whose achievements exceed the standards of excellence in their fields. …
« Previous  Page
1
…
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions