URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/ee/page/85
EE Archives - Page 85 of 85 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: EE
October 28, 2015
Charles Shank receives Enrico Fermi Award
EECS Prof. Emeritus and alumni (Ph.D. ’69) Charles Shank is one of two scientists to receive the Enrico Fermi Award, one of the federal government’s oldest and most prestigious awards for scientific achievement. He was also director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory from 1989-2004. Prof. Shank is recognized for…
July 9, 2015
Pejman Mar Ventures creates new competition for UC Berkeley entrepreneurs
Venture capital firm Pejman Mar Ventures has created a new competition for UC Berkeley entrepreneurs who demonstrate passion and dedication to making their vision a reality. They are offering $250,000 to back up a startup founded by a Berkeley student, faculty member or alum in exchange for 10 percent…
April 6, 2015
Tiffany Reardon receives Chancellor’s Outstanding Staff Award
Tiffany Reardon,  Associate Director of EECS Diversity and Achievement,  has been selected to receive the 2015 Chancellor’s Outstanding Staff Award. This is the highest honor bestowed upon staff by the Chancellor, in recognition of individuals and teams who, in addition to performing all their normal job duties with…
March 31, 2015
Sheila Humphreys receives Presidential Award
Dr. Sheila Humphreys, EECS Director Emerita of Diversity, has been named recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM). This award recognizes outstanding efforts of mentors in encouraging the next generation of innovators and developing a science and engineering workforce that reflects the…
March 16, 2015
Steve Wozniak and Yoky Matsuoka receive Distinguished Alumni Awards
Two EECS alumni have been chosen to receive distinguished alumni awards by the Cal Alumni Association (CAA). Steve Wozniak, (B.S. EE, ‘86) has been named 2015 Alumnus of the Year. He helped shape the computing industry with the design of Apple’s first line of products, co-founding Apple Computer Inc. with…
« Previous  Page
1
…
82
83
84
85
View
Open Faculty Positions