URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs/page/6
EECS Archives - Page 6 of 21 - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
May 16, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 16, 2025
May 9, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 9, 2025
May 6, 2025
Jan Rabaey to Receive the John Choma Education Award
UC Berkeley EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey was selected as the winner of the John Choma Education Award for “for contributions to education and leadership in integrated circuits and systems.” This award is given by the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CAS) and was named to recognize John Choma, who was…
May 5, 2025
EECS faculty and alumni named to inaugural NSTC Technical Advisory Board
Natcast, the entity designated by the Department of Commerce to operate the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), has announced its inaugural Technical Advisory Board (TAB). This advisory board, established by the CHIPS and Science Act, brings together top experts to shape the NSTC’s research agenda, driving U.S. innovation and leadership…
May 2, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 2, 2025
May 1, 2025
Armando Fox and Dan Garcia receive Leon A. Henkin Citation
EECS Professors Armando Fox and Dan Garcia have been awarded the prestigious Leon A. Henkin Citation by UC Berkeley’s Committee on Diversity, Equity, and Campus Climate (DECC). Named after Emeritus Professor of Mathematics Leon A. Henkin, who founded the Committee on Special Scholarships in 1963 to support students from…
April 24, 2025
Scientists trick the eye into seeing new color ‘olo’
In Frank Baum’s original novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Emerald City is said to be such a brilliant shade of green that visitors must wear green-tinted glasses to protect their eyes from “the brightness and glory” of the city. The glasses are one of the…
April 24, 2025
UC Berkeley celebrates opening of Grimes Engineering Center
Students, faculty, staff, key benefactors and the legendary Oski the Bear came together Monday for a festive celebration of the opening of the Grimes Engineering Center, a new hub on the north side of campus. UC Berkeley Engineering marked this exciting milestone — just two years after the building’s groundbreaking…
April 17, 2025
Broadcom expands support for UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab
Following VMware’s long-standing sponsorship, Broadcom is deepening its collaboration with UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab through a $4 million gift. This expanded collaboration reinforces a shared commitment to innovation and interoperability, building on both organizations’ histories of addressing complex industry challenges through cutting-edge research. The Sky Computing Lab, and its…
April 16, 2025
UC Berkeley’s Marvell NanoLab gets high-tech boost with Lam Research gift
Researchers at UC Berkeley Engineering will soon have access to a multimillion-dollar semiconductor manufacturing system that will enable the fabrication of nanoscale semiconductor devices for next-generation chip technologies. Lam Research, headquartered in Fremont, Calif., has donated an innovative multi-chamber etching system to the Berkeley Marvell Nanofabrication Laboratory at…
« Previous  Page
1
…
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions