URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/36
News Archive - Page 36 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 19, 2021
Rose Abramson wins EPE 2021 Young Author Best Paper Award
EECS graduate student Rose A. Abramson (advisor:  Robert Pilawa-Podgurski) has won the European Power Electronics and Drives Association (EPE) 2021 Young Author Best Paper Award.   Her paper, “A High Performance 48-to-8 V Multi-Resonant Switched-Capacitor Converter for Data Center Applications,” co-authored by EECS alumnus Zichao Ye (Ph.D. ’20) and Prof. Robert…
October 23, 2021
Xiaoye Li and Richard Vuduc win 2022 SIAG/SC Best Paper Prize
CS alumni Xiaoye Sherry Li (Ph.D. ’96, advisor: James Demmel) and Richard Vuduc (Ph.D. ’03, advisor: James Demmel) have, along with Piyush Sao of Georgia Tech, won the 2022 Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Activity Group on Supercomputing (AG/SC) Best Paper Prize.  This prize recognizes “the author or authors…
October 23, 2021
Medha Kothari talks Blockchain for the People
CS alumna Medha Kothari (B.A. ’20) is featured in an episode of California magazine’s The Edge podcast titled “Blockchain for the People.”  While still a student, Kothari, who is currently a Research Partner at Variant, founded she256, a non-profit that “aims to increase diversity and break down barriers to entry in the…
October 22, 2021
UC Berkeley Announces Intel oneAPI Center of Excellence for Deep Learning
Berkeley EECS is happy to announce the launch of the Center for Energy Efficient Deep Learning (CEEDL), a new Intel oneAPI Center of Excellence (CoE) with Prof. Kurt Keutzer as Principal Investigator and Prof. Joey Gonzalez as co-PI. This center will focus on producing energy-efficient algorithms and implementations for deep…
October 20, 2021
CDSS and Cal Performances present: “Place and Displacement: Bias in Our Algorithms and Society”
The Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) is excited to announce an upcoming event in collaboration with Cal Performances. On October 28, “Place and Displacement: Bias in Our Algorithms and Society” will feature Cal Artist-in-Residence Angélique Kidjo in conversation with CDSS Associate Provost Jennifer Chayes, EECS Assistant Professor…
October 14, 2021
Zichao Ye presents PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk
EECS graduate student Zichao Ye (advisor: Robert Pilawa-Podgurski) is among five winners selected by the IEEE Power Electronics Society (PELS) to showcase their Ph.D. projects to the global power electronics community.  Ye’s thesis, titled “Hybrid Switched-Capacitor Power Converters: Fundamental Limits and Design Techniques,” focuses on a topological effort to drastically improve the…
October 13, 2021
Ruzena Bajcsy wins PAMI Azriel Rosenfeld Lifetime Achievement Award
EECS Prof. Emerita Ruzena Bajcsy has won the PAMI Azriel Rosenfeld Lifetime Achievement Award.  This award is presented biennially by the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee for Pattern Analysis and Machine Learning (TCPAMI) to honor outstanding “researchers in Computer Vision who have made major contributions to the field over their…
October 13, 2021
Stewart Russell selected as 2021 BBC Reith Lecturer
CS Prof. Stewart Russell has been selected as the 2021 BBC Reith Lecturer.  Considered among the most prestigious lecture series across all fields, Reith Lectures are delivered annually by leading authorites invited by the BBC “to advance public understanding and debate about significant issues of contemporary interest.”   Russell will deliver…
October 12, 2021
Anca Dragan, Raluca Popa, and Thomas Courtade win 2020 EECS Teaching Awards
The 2019-20 EECS Teaching Awards recognize three members of our faculty whose extraordinary performances kept students focused and engaged during a particularly difficult year.  The CS Diane McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching was presented to Anca Dragan in the spirit of McEntyre who was know for her “dedication to…
October 11, 2021
EECS expands efforts to diversify professoriate by increasing retention of underrepresented undergraduates
The Diversifying LEAdership in the Professoriate (LEAP) Alliance (formerly called the FLIP Alliance), is one of the benefactors of a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to the Center for Minorities and People with Disabilities in Computing and Information Technology (CMD-IT) to support the Broadening Participation in Computing Alliance (BPC-A).  UC Berkeley…
« Previous  Page
1
…
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions