URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/64
News Archive - Page 64 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 27, 2019
Richard Din innovates unique course to help students connect more deeply with entrepreneurs
EECS alumnus Richard Din (B.S. EECS/B.A. Econ ’08),  the co-founder of revolutionary food-delivery app Caviar, has imagined and helped to create a small, select, new course being offerred fall semester through the Sutardja Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology (SCET).  The course, which cannot be documented or attended by visitors, will…
August 26, 2019
Berkeley Lightning: A Public University’s Role in the Rise of Silicon Valley
Berkeley Remix Podcast Season 4, Episode 2, explores the contributions of UC Berkeley Engineering to the rise of the semiconductor industry in Silicon Valley in the 1960s and 70s.   “Berkeley Lightning: A Public University’s Role in the Rise of Silicon Valley”  focuses on the development of SPICE, the first…
August 22, 2019
EECS students, postdocs, alumni and faculty make strong showing at 2019 USENIX Security Symposium
EECS students, postdocs, alumni, and faculty were front and center at the 28th USENIX Security Symposium in Santa Clara last week.  In addition to the Test of Time and Distinguished Paper Awards (see below), Keynote Speaker Alex Stamos (B.S. ’01), previously the Chief Security Officer of Facebook, highlighted the threat model work of current…
August 22, 2019
Grant Ho, Vern Paxson, and David Wagner win USENIX Security Symposium Distinguished Paper Award
Graduate student Grant Ho and his co-advisors Profs. Vern Paxson and David Wagner, were honored with a Distinguished Paper Award at the 2019 USENIX Security Symposium for “Detecting and Characterizing Lateral Phishing at Scale”.  In the paper, they presented “the first large-scale characterization of lateral phishing attacks, based on a dataset of…
August 22, 2019
David Wagner, Eric Brewer, Ian Goldberg, and Randi Thomas win 2019 USENIX Test of Time Award
CS Profs. and alumni David Wagner (Ph.D. ’00) and Eric Brewer (B.S. ’89), and alumni Ian Goldberg (Ph.D. ’00) and Randi Thomas (M.S.) have won the 2019 USENIX Test of Time Award for their 1996 paper titled “A Secure Environment for Untrusted Helper Applications.”  The paper, which introduced a fundamental…
August 20, 2019
A map of the brain can tell what you’re reading about
A group of researchers currently or formerly working in the lab of CS Affiliate Prof. Jack Gallant, have developed interactive semantic maps that can predict where different categories of words activate the brain. The researchers used functional MRI to scan the brains of subjects who were listening to or reading…
August 20, 2019
Wearable sensors detect what’s in your sweat
A paper co-authored by EE Prof. Ali Javey, describes a new sweat sensor design that can be rapidly manufactured using a “roll-to-roll” processing technique that essentially prints the sensors onto a sheet of plastic like words on a newspaper.  The sensors monitor sweat rate and the electrolytes and metabolites in…
August 16, 2019
Tsu-Jae Liu wins 2019 AAEOY Asian American Distinguished Science and Technology Award
EE Prof. and Dean of Engineering Tsu-Jae King Liu has won a 2019 Asian American Distinguished Science and Technology Award  for “contributions to nanometer-scale field-effect transistor and micro-electro-mechanical relay technology for digital computation and memory applications.”   The award is part of the annual DiscoverE National Engineers Week program hosted by…
August 8, 2019
Raluca Ada Popa named Bakar Fellow
EECS Prof. Raluca Ada Popa has been selected for the Bakar Fellows Program, which supports faculty working to apply scientific discoveries to real-world issues in the fields of engineering, computer science, chemistry, and biological and physical sciences. With her Bakar Fellows Spark Award, Prof. Popa will design and build a…
August 7, 2019
Simons Institute announces Richard M. Karp Distinguished Lecture Series
The Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing has announced the creation of the Richard M. Karp Distinguished Lectures, named in honor of CS Prof. Emeritus Richard Karp, the Institute’s Founding Director. The series will feature talks by leading researchers in the foundations of computing including Sanjeev Arora (Ph.D. ’94,…
« Previous  Page
1
…
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions