URL: eecs.berkeley.edu/resources/faculty-staff/ieee-acm-awards/
A Guide to IEEE and ACM Awards - EECS at Berkeley
Skip to Content
Expand Main Menu
Collapse Main Menu
Search for:
Search
For Students
For Faculty/Staff
Industry
News
Events
Give
Search for:
Search
About
About
About
About Overview
History
The First Women of EECS
Joseph Thomas Gier
A Relatively Recent History: Women Doctoral Graduates in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, 1969-1981
Diversity
Hear From Women in EECS
Broadening Participation in EECS
Visiting
By the Numbers
Special Events
2023-24
2022-23
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world.
Blog
Academics
Academics
Academics
Academics Overview
Undergraduate Admissions & Programs
CS Major
EECS Major
ECE Major
Undergraduate Program Comparison
Second Bachelor's Degree
Summer Research
Cal Day
Graduate Admissions & Programs
Grad Admissions FAQ
Industry-Oriented Programs
Research-Oriented Programs
Fellowships
Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department
Recommended Coursework
For Current Students
ed | EECS 101
Courses
EE Courses
CS Courses
New Silicon Initiative (NSI)
Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers.
View Courses
Research
Research
Research
Research Overview
Areas
Centers & Labs
Colloquium
Archive
BEARS Symposium
Archive
Technical Reports
Ph.D. Dissertations
Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference.
EECS Research
People
People
People
People Overview
Directory
Leadership
Faculty
In Memoriam
Students
Student Organizations
Student Awards
Staff
Student Affairs
Faculty  Support
Course Support
Facilities and Engineering Services
Financial Services
HR
IT Support
Industrial & Public Relations
Alumni
EE Distinguished Alumni
CS Distinguished Alumni
EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus.
Latest News
Connect
Connect
Connect
Connect Overview
Support EECS
EECS Excellence Fund
Memorial Funds
K-12 Outreach
Student Affairs
Faculty Positions
Staff Positions
Contact
In an Emergency
Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture.
Contact us
Home
/
Resources
/
Resources for Faculty and Staff
/
A Guide to IEEE and ACM Awards
A Guide to IEEE and ACM Awards
IEEE Awards
If IEEE conferences and publications are important sources of information for you, and you publish your work via those venues, you may well become a candidate for one of the many IEEE awards and recognitions. Most of these awards do not require IEEE membership.  IEEE is a non-profit educational and professional association. IEEE’s technical activities are sustained by volunteer members, including many of your faculty colleagues.
Any professional working in the field is eligible for IEEE membership. Current US dues are $197 annually. You will receive IEEE
Spectrum
magazine. You may apply for
Senior Member
status after 5 years of experience and IEEE membership. Most IEEE members active in research also join one or more Technical Societies; additional dues of $18-$60 annually give you substantial discounts on conference registration fees and eligibility for editorial and/or conference leadership appointments. After 65, when your age + years of IEEE membership = 100, you become a life member with no further dues.
IEEE Fellow
status is conferred annually on 0.1% of the professional members; about 300 people. There are about 1000 nominees each year. You must be a Senior Member to be eligible for a Fellow nomination. The nominator and 5-7 references must all be IEEE Fellows. Virtually every IEEE member on our faculty becomes an IEEE Fellow. Fellow status signifies recognition by your peers that you are among the leading contributors to your technical field.
IEEE’s Technical Societies organize IEEE-sponsored technical conferences and have editorial responsibility for all the Transactions and Journals. Most IEEE conferences and publications bestow
Outstanding Paper Awards
.
Most of the approximately 40 IEEE Societies also offer annual awards for outstanding contributions. People who have made a succession of good technical contributions in the Society’s field may be nominated for a
Technical Society Award (TSA)
. These awards are administered by each Society. Selection processes vary; some are informal.  Some TSAs are very prestigious (see Society web sites for a list of prior recipients) and receive many nominations.  Some include a small honorarium.  Nominations are best made by a senior person working in the field. Although self-nominations are not allowed, it’s OK to ask a senior colleague to nominate you.
The highest level IEEE awards are the ~40
IEEE Technical Field Awards
(TFAs)
and ~15
IEEE Medals
.  These are administered in a structured process by the IEEE Awards Board.  The
TFAs
frequently are won by mid-career people or teams who have done significant original work, often with impact beyond the scope of a single IEEE Society.  The Medals are seen as career capstones for one or (occasionally) two senior individuals.  The TFAs and Medals each usually attract 3-12 highly qualified nominations. The selection committees often include several prior recipients of that award.
Strong candidates will have won several of the above recognitions and other honors, will be highly visible in professional circles, and will have strong letters of support from leaders in the field.   The TFAs include an honorarium of at least $5K.  The Medals include an engraved gold medal and an honorarium of $10K or more. (See link below to a list of EECS faculty recipients.)
The EECS Department Awards Committee strives to identify good internal nominees for IEEE TFAs and Medals, and other high level national or international awards, and arrange for preparation and submission of nominations.  The Committee has access to academic personnel files.  Candidates are not supposed to be involved in nominations. However, you may be asked for information in addition to that in Dept. files.
Learn About IEEE Society Memberships
IEEE Awards Board
Search for IEEE-Level Award Recipients and Citations
List of IEEE awards won by EECS faculty
ACM and Joint Awards
ACM is a smaller, non-profit professional society, focused on computer science, similar to the IEEE.  In pleasant contrast to IEEE, ACM has clear, simple web pages detailing their membership grades and awards.  Current US member dues are $99 annually.  You will receive an online and print subscription to the
Communications of the ACM
.
Fellow status for ACM is limited to the top 1% of total membership.    Most UCB Computer Science faculty become ACM Fellows.
ACM Membership Options
ACM Advanced Grades of Membership
IEEE and ACM jointly sponsor some of the best conferences in computing fields.  (In areas where IEEE and ACM compete, our colleagues generally find ACM’s offerings to be superior.)  ACM’s 50+ Special Interest Groups (SIGs) are similar to IEEE’s Technical Societies, except their focus is strongly on conference publications, with much less activity in traditional publishing.  Many of the SIGs confer very prestigious awards for outstanding conference papers.  No nomination process; the conference awards committee selects from the presented papers.
ACM SIG Awards
There are about 25 high level ACM awards, including the Turing Award with a $1M honorarium, often termed the Nobel Prize in Computer Science.  These have nomination and selection processes that vary, but are generally similar to those for IEEE’s TFAs and Medals.
ACM Awards and Sponsors
List of ACM awards won by EECS faculty
Created by:  David Hodges, 2018
Resources
Information for Current Students
Broadening Participation in EECS
Department Policy on Academic Misconduct
Wellness Resources
Student Concerns and Grievances
Student Computing and Email
Curricular Practical Training (CPT)
Resources for Faculty and Staff
Staff Contact Quick List
Administrative Services
Course and Instructional Support
Academic Personnel Information
Event Planning Calendar
Undergraduate Faculty Advising – for Faculty
Staff IT Procedures
Graduate Student Review Information for Faculty
My EECS Info Guide
A Guide to IEEE and ACM Awards
Academic Personnel Information
Center for Student Affairs
Visiting Research Scholars
Prospective Visiting Scholar Information & Applications
New Visiting Scholar Information
Information for Current Graduate Students
Grad Student Visit Days
Graduate Advisors
EECS Technical Memorandum Series Policy
M.Eng. Student Guide
M.S. and Ph.D. Class Information and Scheduling
Readmission and Re-Enrollment to the EECS Department
Pre-Faculty Preparation
Forms for Current Graduate Students
Information for Current Undergraduate Students
Undergraduate Research
Honors Program
Accel Scholars Program
Information for New EECS Students
EECS Major Information
CS Major Information
Preparing for Graduate School
Tutoring and Counseling
Undergraduate Faculty Advising  – for Students
Undergraduate Scholarships
EECS Study Abroad Program
Facilitating EECS DeCal Classes
Undergraduate FAQs and Advice
Undergraduate Programs and Scholarships
Undergraduate Minors
ECE Major Information
Information for ASEs
Guide for Prospective ASEs
Guide for Current ASEs
Facilities, Safety and Space Management
About Reserving Cory and Soda Hall Rooms
EECS Department Space Policy
Soda Hall Space Policy
Principles of Soda Hall Space Allocation
Department Vehicle Use Policy & Procedures
EECS Safety Manual
Login URLs for EECS and Campus Resources
About
History
Diversity
Visiting
Special Events
People
Directory
Leadership
Faculty
Staff
Students
Alumni
Connect
Support Us
K-12 Outreach
Faculty Positions
Staff Positions
Contact
Academics
Undergrad Admissions & Programs
Graduate Admissions & Programs
Courses
Prospective Women Students
Current Students
Resources
Room Reservations
My EECS Info
For Students
For Grads
For Undergrads
For ASEs
IT Services
Facilities/Safety
For Faculty/Staff
Visiting Scholars
Research
Areas
Centers & Labs
Technical Reports
PhD Dissertations
Joint Colloquium
BEARS Symposium
Industry
Corporate Access
New Silicon Initiative (NSI)
Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships.
Give to EECS
Berkeley EECS on Twitter
Berkeley EECS on Instagram
Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn
Berkeley EECS on YouTube
EE
CS
UC Berkeley
Berkeley Engineering
CDSS
Accessibility
Nondiscrimination
Privacy
Contact
© 2026 UC Regents
View
Open Faculty Positions