URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/k-12-outreach/page/2
K-12 outreach Archives - Page 2 of 3 - EECS at Berkeley
K-12 outreach
April 17, 2019
Nolan Pokpongkiat wins third place David L. Kirp Prize
Third-year Computer Science undergraduate Nolan Pokpongkiat is the third place winner of the KIDS FIRST: David L. Kirp Prize, funded by the U.C. Berkeley Institute for the Study of Societal Issues.  The prize recognizes “students who have developed innovative strategies to increase opportunities for children and youth, as well as…
August 17, 2018
College of Engineering reports 7% increase in female students admitted for 2018-19
UC Berkeley’s College of Engineering has seen a 7 percent increase in the number of female students admitted for the 2018–19 academic year, according to the college’s admissions statistics.  Multiple strategies have been implemented in recent years to increase the number of female engineering students: reaching out to middle school students,…
May 21, 2018
Kevin Wang tackles technology with TEALS program
Alumnus Kevin Wang (B.S. ’02) is mentioned in an Observer Reporter article titled “Trinity tackles technology with TEALS program.”  Wang, who went on to earn an M.Ed. in Technology, Innovation, and Education (TIE) from Harvard, created a Microsoft Philanthropies program called Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) to showcase…
November 6, 2017
Dan Garcia praises educators working to expand CS learning in Alabama’s schools
Teaching Prof. Dan Garcia is quoted in a WBRC Fox 6 News article  which discusses how a group of Alabama teachers are working to expand computer science education opportunities for students in rural Alabama and inner-city Birmingham.  Garcia, who was part of the 2017 Alabama Teachers Computer Science Summit at…
October 5, 2017
Marie desJardins wins  A. Richard Newton Educator ABIE Award
CS alumna Marie desJardins (Ph.D. ’92 adviser: Stuart Russell) has won the 2017 A. Richard Newton Educator ABIE Award. The award, named in honor of the late EE Prof. Richard Newton and presented annually at the Grace Hopper Celebration,  recognizes educators who develop innovative teaching practices and approaches that attract girls…
August 9, 2017
Barbara Grosz receives ACL Lifetime Achievement Award
Alumna Barbara Grosz (CS M.S. ’71/Ph.D. ’77), Higgins Professor of Natural Sciences at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS), has received the 2017 Lifetime Achievement Award of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).  The award recognizes the work of a researcher who has made sustained and impactful contributions…
May 22, 2017
Avideh Zakhor: the brains behind Google Earth and Street View
Computer vision pioneer Prof. Avideh Zakhor is the subject of a Mercury News profile titled “Avideh Zakhor: the brains behind Google Earth and Street View,”  which touches on her emigration from Iran,  the creation of the 3-D city modeling technology for a Defense Department-funded start-up which she ultimately sold…
April 6, 2017
Beauty and Joy of Computing curriculum receives grant from InfoSys
The Beauty and Joy of Computing, an introductory computer science curriculum taught by Prof. Dan Garcia has received a $311,975 grant from InfoSys for a Professional Development week “BJCpalooza” for teachers to be held July 17-21, 2017 at UC Berkeley. Approximately 200 high school teachers from across the…
March 13, 2017
Anca Dragan wants more human-centered AI4ALL
At the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) Camp this year, Assistant Prof. Anca Dragan will lead AI4ALL, a Berkeley education program designed to introduce high potential, low income high schoolers to humanistic AI.  In an article titled “The future of AI needs to have more people in it” she discusses…
December 5, 2016
Ana Arias and Rikky Muller selected as NAE Gilbreth Lecturers
Associate Professor Ana Claudia Arias and Assistant Professor Rikky Muller have been selected as Gilbreth Lecturers at the upcoming National Academy of Engineering’s (NAE) National Meeting on Thursday, February 9, 2017. Encouraging an interest in engineering careers among middle and high school students is a high priority for…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions