URL: eecs.berkeley.edu/resources/undergrads/undergraduate-research/superb/
Summer Undergraduate Program in Engineering Research at Berkeley (SUPERB) - EECS at Berkeley
Skip to Content
Expand Main Menu
Collapse Main Menu
Search for:
Search
For Students
For Faculty/Staff
Industry
News
Events
Give
Search for:
Search
About
About
About
About Overview
History
The First Women of EECS
Joseph Thomas Gier
A Relatively Recent History: Women Doctoral Graduates in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, 1969-1981
Diversity
Hear From Women in EECS
Broadening Participation in EECS
Visiting
By the Numbers
Special Events
2023-24
2022-23
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley offers one of the strongest research and instructional programs in this field anywhere in the world.
Blog
Academics
Academics
Academics
Academics Overview
Undergraduate Admissions & Programs
CS Major
EECS Major
ECE Major
Undergraduate Program Comparison
Second Bachelor's Degree
Summer Research
Cal Day
Graduate Admissions & Programs
Grad Admissions FAQ
Industry-Oriented Programs
Research-Oriented Programs
Fellowships
Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department
Recommended Coursework
For Current Students
ed | EECS 101
Courses
EE Courses
CS Courses
New Silicon Initiative (NSI)
Unlike many institutions of similar stature, regular EE and CS faculty teach the vast majority of our courses, and the most exceptional teachers are often also the most exceptional researchers.
View Courses
Research
Research
Research
Research Overview
Areas
Centers & Labs
Colloquium
Archive
BEARS Symposium
Archive
Technical Reports
Ph.D. Dissertations
Research is the foundation of Berkeley EECS. Faculty, students, and staff work together on cutting-edge projects that cross disciplinary boundaries to improve everyday life and make a difference.
EECS Research
People
People
People
People Overview
Directory
Leadership
Faculty
In Memoriam
Students
Student Organizations
Student Awards
Staff
Student Affairs
Faculty  Support
Course Support
Facilities and Engineering Services
Financial Services
HR
IT Support
Industrial & Public Relations
Alumni
EE Distinguished Alumni
CS Distinguished Alumni
EECS faculty, students, staff, and alumni are central to our success as one of the most thriving and distinguished departments on the Berkeley campus.
Latest News
Connect
Connect
Connect
Connect Overview
Support EECS
EECS Excellence Fund
Memorial Funds
K-12 Outreach
Student Affairs
Faculty Positions
Staff Positions
Contact
In an Emergency
Consider reaching out for a conversation, attending a department seminar or conference, viewing a lecture on any one of our public channels, or supporting us via a gift to the university. You can help strengthen our dedication to education and outreach, solidify close ties to industry, and nourish a supportive and inclusive culture.
Contact us
Home
/
Resources
/
Information for Current Undergraduate Students
/
Undergraduate Research
/
Summer Undergraduate Program in Engineering Research at Berkeley (SUPERB)
CS undergraduate Nico Deshler talking to EECS Chair James Demmel about his sensor array project at the 2018 SUPERB/URISE REU poster session
Summer Undergraduate Program in Engineering Research at Berkeley (SUPERB) – Artificial Intelligence for Engineering (AI4E)
The goal of the SUPERB in EECS is to prepare and motivate a group of diverse, competitive candidates for graduate study. Our research focus is AI for Engineering.
The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley proposes a new REU site SUPERB-AI4E, which stands for Summer Undergraduate Program in Engineering Research at Berkeley – Artificial Intelligence for Engineering.
SUPERB participants receive a stipend and room and board on campus in the International House for the program.
At a Glance
Program dates: June – August, 2025
Application deadline: January 25th 2025, 11:59 PM ET
Challenging summer research experience in engineering for juniors and seniors
Research guided by faculty mentors and graduate students
Weekly presentations by researchers
Lab tours, Industry field trip and graduate school advising
Stipend, housing, meals provided
Underrepresented groups are strongly encouraged to apply, as well as those from academic institutions with
limited research opportunities in STEM.
REU Theme
The Berkeley EECS SUPERB site proposal for 2025 focuses on Artificial Intelligence for Engineering. This REU aims to study the challenges, risks, and limitations of this technology, focusing on machine learning algorithms, safety in human-robot interaction, provably-safe AI systems, defense against adversarial attacks, and managing unpredictability in engineering design and control that is influenced by Large Language Models. The SUPERB program recruits undergraduate students each summer to work with EECS faculty on projects in alignment with our proposed research theme which is “AI for Engineering”.
SUPERB Opportunities & Research Areas
There are different ways to engage in research through SUPERB. Please let us know which program/lab you are interested in engaging with in your research statement.
1)
EECS Research Areas
Here is a subset of the
EECS research areas
that align with the SUPERB 2025 theme AI for Engineering. Please indicate which research area you are interested in your research statement of purpose:
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO)
Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR)
Database Management Systems (DBMS)
Energy (ENE)
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)
Information, Data, Network, and Communication Sciences (IDNCS)
Micro/Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS)
Operating Systems & Networking (OSNT)
Programming Systems (PS)
Security (SEC)
Apply
The 2025 application is now closed.
The SUPERB Application will require applicants to provide information below, including:
Background information
Personal statement
A Resume or CV
One Letter of Recommendation
A Transcript
A brief statement (no more than 250 words) of your research interests. Please include specific research areas and faculty you are interested in working with.
The program is open to U.S. Citizens or permanent residents who are
rising juniors or seniors
and have completed some upper division course work in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS).  A minimum overall GPA of 3.0 is required with upward trends in grades being preferable. The program is open to students with or without prior research experience.
Recommendation Letters
You are required to obtain at least one letter of recommendation. The letter must be from an individual who can speak on the applicant’s technical skills/knowledge (faculty member, research mentor/supervisor, etc.) in the student’s major, minor, or course of study. Applicants will provide their letter writer’s information in the application, and EECS will contact them. The final day for the letter of recommendation to be received is January 29th, 2025.
Applicants will be notified of their status by April 2025.
Contact
University of California, Berkeley
203 Cory Hall #1770
Berkeley, CA 94720-1770
diversity@eecs.berkeley.edu
Links
Women in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (WICSE)
Undergraduate Research @ Berkeley
Information about other summer undergraduate research programs on our campus
College of Engineering Student Research
Information about other undergraduate research in Bioengineering, Civil Engineering, Material Science Engineering or Mechanical Engineering
About
History
Diversity
Visiting
Special Events
People
Directory
Leadership
Faculty
Staff
Students
Alumni
Connect
Support Us
K-12 Outreach
Faculty Positions
Staff Positions
Contact
Academics
Undergrad Admissions & Programs
Graduate Admissions & Programs
Courses
Prospective Women Students
Current Students
Resources
Room Reservations
My EECS Info
For Students
For Grads
For Undergrads
For ASEs
IT Services
Facilities/Safety
For Faculty/Staff
Visiting Scholars
Research
Areas
Centers & Labs
Technical Reports
PhD Dissertations
Joint Colloquium
BEARS Symposium
Industry
Corporate Access
New Silicon Initiative (NSI)
Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships.
Give to EECS
Berkeley EECS on Twitter
Berkeley EECS on Instagram
Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn
Berkeley EECS on YouTube
EE
CS
UC Berkeley
Berkeley Engineering
CDSS
Accessibility
Nondiscrimination
Privacy
Contact
© 2025 UC Regents
View
Open Faculty Positions