URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/cs/page/2
CS Archives - Page 2 of 104 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: CS
December 4, 2025
Michael I. Jordan receives major honors in China and Italy
EECS and Statistics Professor Emeritus Michael I. Jordan has been elected to two prestigious international academies: the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) as a Foreign Member, and the Italian Accademia di Ingegneria e Tecnologia (AICT).Election to CAS is among the highest honors bestowed by China’s national scientific…
December 2, 2025
Venkatesan Guruswami named Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing
Venkatesan Guruswami has been selected as the new director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley, following an international search. The Simons Institute is the world’s foremost center for collaborative research in theoretical computer science, bringing together scholars to tackle foundational questions…
November 12, 2025
UC Berkeley’s introductory machine learning course gets optimized for the AI age
As artificial intelligence technology continues advancing at a breakneck pace, faculty at UC Berkeley are optimizing computer science courses to keep undergraduate students informed and prepared for changing careers in the tech industry and beyond.
November 6, 2025
Dawn Song selected as an AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences
Professor Dawn Song was selected as a 2025 AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences. The fellowship honors researchers advancing responsible innovation and the development of AI that benefits humanity. This year’s cohort includes 28 researchers from eight countries who will receive more than…
November 6, 2025
Emma Pierson named Zhang Family Endowed Professor
Emma Pierson, who joined EECS earlier this year, was named the department’s Zhang Family Endowed Professor. Hao Zhang, M.A. ’05, Ph.D ’07, contributed $1 million to establish the endowment and support junior faculty working on artificial intelligence. Pierson’s research has many…
October 21, 2025
EECS students drive AI innovation as Amazon PhD Fellows
Today, Amazon announced its new AI PhD Fellowship program, offering two years of funding to over 100 PhD students across nine universities. Ten of these inaugural fellowships have been awarded to graduate students from UC Berkeley EECS’ Sky Computing Lab, supporting cutting-edge research in core AI disciplines like machine…
October 7, 2025
Berkeley Homecoming features conversation on shaping our AI future
Andy Konwinski, serial founder and Berkeley computer science Ph.D. alum, joined Jennifer Chayes, dean of the UC Berkeley College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), for a spirited discussion on shaping our AI future. More than 200 students and their parents, alumni and members of…
September 25, 2025
UC Berkeley receives AI for Math Fund grants for Vellum and LeanTutor projects
Two projects proposed by Berkeley EECS professors recently received funding from the AI for Math Fund to develop systems that help advance mathematical discovery and research. Last week, the AI for Math Fund announced a total of $18 million in grants for 29 projects, one of the…
September 23, 2025
UC Berkeley ranked #1 in data science and #2 in computer science by U.S. News
UC Berkeley’s undergraduate data science program retained its No. 1 spot in the 2026 U.S. News and World Report rankings released today. The university also held its No. 2 ranking in computer science at the undergraduate level. It shared that spot with Carnegie Mellon University and Stanford…
September 23, 2025
U.S. News ranks Berkeley’s undergrad engineering program No. 3 in the nation
UC Berkeley Engineering holds onto the No. 3 spot in U.S. News and World Report’s annual rankings of undergraduate engineering programs. U.S. News includes rankings for both computer engineering and computer science. Both are housed in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, which is shared with the College of…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
104
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions