URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/k-12-outreach/page/3
K-12 outreach Archives - Page 3 of 3 - EECS at Berkeley
K-12 outreach
September 2, 2016
Dan Garcia quoted in EdSource article
Prof. Dan Garcia is quoted in an EdSource article titled “New computer science course’s challenge is finding qualified teachers to teach it”. Expansion of a new Advanced Placement computer science course aimed at drawing young women and minorities into high-tech fields is being hampered by a nationwide shortage of teachers qualified to…
July 19, 2016
Tsu-Jae King Liu appeals to Silicon Valley to collaborate to increase the number of women in computer technology
EECS Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu and Belle Wei (Chair of Engineering Education and Innovative Learning at San Jose State) penned an article for the Mercury News titled “Closing tech workforce gap calls for interdisciplinary model.”   In it, they argue that there is a desperate need to increase the future number…
April 8, 2016
EECS Department receives $1M Gift for CS Diversity
The EECS Department is pleased to announce a $1 million dollar gift from the Hopper-Dean Foundation in support of diversity initiatives in Computer Science. Over the next two years, we anticipate this effort will touch thousands of students at Cal and high schools nationwide. The Hopper-Dean Foundation funds will support…
March 11, 2016
Dan Garcia receives 2016 NCWIT Undergraduate Research Mentoring Award
Prof. Dan Garcia has been selected to receive a National Center for Women in Information Technology (NCWIT) 2016 Undergraduate Research Mentoring (URM) Award. This award recognizes Academic Alliance representatives at non-profit U.S. Institutions for their outstanding mentorship, high-quality research opportunities, recruitment of women and minority students, and…
March 31, 2015
Sheila Humphreys receives Presidential Award
Dr. Sheila Humphreys, EECS Director Emerita of Diversity, has been named recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM). This award recognizes outstanding efforts of mentors in encouraging the next generation of innovators and developing a science and engineering workforce that reflects the…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
View
Open Faculty Positions