URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/cs/page/6
CS Archives - Page 6 of 104 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: CS
April 17, 2025
Broadcom expands support for UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab
Following VMware’s long-standing sponsorship, Broadcom is deepening its collaboration with UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab through a $4 million gift. This expanded collaboration reinforces a shared commitment to innovation and interoperability, building on both organizations’ histories of addressing complex industry challenges through cutting-edge research. The Sky Computing Lab, and its…
April 15, 2025
Don’t sweat it! Wearable sweat sensor can track your hydration status during physical and mental activities
In a study recently published in Nature Electronics, researchers demonstrated how their sweat sensor measures electrodermal activity (EDA), an electrical property of the skin, to monitor hydration levels during physical activity. Until now, EDA, or skin conductance, has been thought to be effective at assessing only mental stress. These…
April 11, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | April 11, 2025
April 11, 2025
EECS Faculty and Alumni recognized with UC Berkeley Achievement Awards
Each year, UC Berkeley honors exceptional members of its community through the Achievement Awards. These awards recognize industry-shaping leaders, devoted alumni who have deeply impacted the campus, and young graduates whose early accomplishments show great promise. The awards are co-presented by the UC Berkeley Foundation and the Cal Alumni Association.
April 8, 2025
UC Berkeley computer science, electrical engineering graduate programs rank highly
UC Berkeley’s graduate programs in computer science, computer engineering and electrical engineering continue to receive high rankings by U.S. News & World Report, according to 2025 rankings released April 8. The following rankings were given to Berkeley graduate programs: #1 in…
April 4, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | April 4, 2025
March 31, 2025
WIRED: Angelina Jolie Was Right About Computers
David Patterson, professor emeritus of computer science, has reshaped modern computing with his groundbreaking work on RISC (Reduced Instruction Set Computer) architecture. Wired explores how his early research at UC Berkeley laid the foundation for RISC-V, an open-source alternative now driving innovation across the industry.
March 31, 2025
Brain-to-voice neuroprosthesis restores naturalistic speech
Marking a breakthrough in the field of brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), a team of researchers from UC Berkeley and UC San Francisco has unlocked a way to restore naturalistic speech for people with severe paralysis. This work solves the long-standing challenge of latency in speech neuroprostheses, the time lag between when…
March 21, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | March 21, 2025
March 20, 2025
Dan Garcia wins UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award
EECS Teaching Professor Dan Garcia has won the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award. Garcia is one of five UC Berkeley instructors who have been honored with the 2025 Distinguished Teaching Award, the university’s highest recognition for teaching excellence. Announced by the Academic Senate’s Committee on Teaching, the award celebrates educators…
« Previous  Page
1
…
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
104
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions