URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/academics/graduate/industry-programs/meng/apply
Apply to the M.Eng. EECS Program - EECS at Berkeley
Apply to the M.Eng. EECS Program
The deadline to apply for the MEng program is January 8, 2024, at 8:59 pm PST.
Prepare your required materials. Details can be found on the  Graduate Division website
GRE Scores  – The EECS department no longer requires, accepts, or considers GRE scores.
Proof of English Proficiency –  If your previous degree is from a non-English speaking university, then you need to take the TOEFL or IELTS exam. Send scores electronically to Institution Code 4833.
Statement of Purpose –  Why are you applying for this program? What will you do during this degree program? What do you want to do after and how will this help you? Further tips
Personal History Statement –  What from your past made you decide to go into this field? And how will your personal history help you succeed in this program and your future goals?
3 Letters of Recommendation –  Mixture of academic and industry letters is ideal. They should include details about your goals, accomplishments, technical and leadership skills, academic work, etc. We suggest to give your recommenders a few weeks to write your letters and upload them as PDFs through the link (provided from your online application).
Unofficial Transcripts –  Please do not mail transcripts. Simply upload unofficial transcripts as PDFs through the online application. Transcripts not in English or Spanish must be translated prior to uploading to the application.
GPA –  If you attended a university outside of the USA, please leave the GPA section blank.
Complete the  online application
Start your application and fill in each relevant page.
Upload the materials above, and send the recommender links several weeks prior to the application deadline to give your recommenders time to submit their letters by the deadline.
Enter your exam scores into the application. It is fine for us to receive your official score reports electronically after the deadline as long as we have your scores in the application.
Pay the application fee ( waivers available ).
Submit your online application before the deadline on  January 8 .
Send questions to mengadmissions@eecs.berkeley.edu
Academics
Courses
Approved CS Graduate and Special Topics Courses
Technical Electives for the Computer Science Major
Course-Numbering Convention
Robotics Projects for EE 106/206B
Graduate Admissions & Programs
Industry-Oriented Graduate Programs
Research-Oriented Graduate Programs
Graduate Admissions Frequently Asked Questions
Graduate Fellowships
Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department
Recommended Coursework for Applying to the Graduate Degree Programs
Undergraduate Admissions & Programs
EECS Bachelor of Science
ECE Bachelor of Science
Computer Science Bachelor of Arts
Undergraduate Program Comparison
Can You See Yourself Doing Research This Summer?
Prospective Student Visitors
Second Bachelor’s Degree Candidates
Prospective Women Students
New Silicon Initiative (NSI)
Apple NSI Course Flow Map
Apple NSI Fellowship and Scholarship Recipients
View
Open Faculty Positions