URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/32
Research Archives - Page 32 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
October 29, 2020
New “spin-orbit torque” switching technique breaks magnetic memory speed record
EECS Chair Jeffrey Bokor is among an international team of researchers who have published a paper in the journal Nature Electronics that describes a new technique for magnetization switching — the process used to “write” information into magnetic memory — that is nearly 100 times faster than state-of-the-art spintronic devices. The…
October 26, 2020
Gabe Fierro wins inaugural Google – CMD-IT FLIP Dissertation Fellowship
EECS graduate student Gabriel Fierro (B.S. c. 2014, Ph.D. advisor: David Culler) has won an inaugural Google – CMD-IT FLIP Dissertation Fellowship.   He is one of 11 computer science scholars from underrepresented groups who were recognized this year for “positively influencing the direction and perspective of technology.”   The award…
October 26, 2020
“Extreme MRI” chosen as ISMRM Reproducible Research pick
“Extreme MRI: Large‐scale volumetric dynamic imaging from continuous non‐gated acquisitions,” a paper by EECS alumnus Frank Ong (B.S. ’13, Ph.D. ’18) and his advisor, Prof. Miki Lustig, has been chosen as October’s Reproducible Research pick by the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM).  The paper, in which the researchers…
October 15, 2020
Mike Stonebraker wins 2020 C&C Prize
EECS Prof. Emeritus Michael Stonebraker has won the prestigious NEC Computers and Communications (C&C) Prize “For Pioneering Contributions to Relational Database Systems.” The prize is awarded “to distinguished persons in recognition of outstanding contributions to research and development and/or pioneering work in the fields of semiconductors, computers, and/or telecommunications and…
October 4, 2020
Ali Niknejad wins SIA 2020 University Research Award
EE alumnus and Prof.  Ali Niknejad (M.S. ’97 / Ph.D. ’00, advisor:  Robert G. Meyer ) has been selected to receive a Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) 2020 University Research Award.  This award recognizes lifetime research contributions to the U.S. semiconductor industry by university faculty.  Niknejad is faculty director of the…
October 2, 2020
Dorsa Sadigh wins 2020 IEEE TCCPS Early Career Award
EECS alumna Dorsa Sadigh (BS ’12 / PhD ’17, advisors: Shankar Sastry and Sanjit Seshia) has been recognized with the IEEE Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems (TCCPS) Early Career Award ‘‘for contributions to the theory, design, and implementation of human cyber-physical systems.’’ She is currently an Assistant Professor in the…
October 2, 2020
Kathy Yelick wins 2020 Berkeley Lab Citation for Exceptional Achievement
EECS Prof. Katherine Yelick has won The Berkeley Lab Citation, the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) Director’s Award for Exceptional Achievement which “honors extraordinary achievement(s) in broad categories of science and operations, with special focus on service to the Lab and/or the DOE National Lab Complex.”  Yelick was…
October 1, 2020
An interview with Tapia 2020 keynote speaker Colin Parris
EE alumnus Colin Parris (M.S. ’87, Ph.D. ’94, advisor: Domenico Ferrari), the Ken Kennedy keynote speaker at the 2020 ACM Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference, is the subject of a CMDIT interview.  He talks about his childhood, the value of diversity in technological fields, and what young…
October 1, 2020
Sophia Shao and Alp Sipahigil win Berkeley Engineering faculty fellowships
New EECS Assistant Profs. Sophia Shao and Alp Sipahigil have received Engineering faculty fellowships, which will help fund the first five years of their projects and labs at Berkeley.   The fellowships are sponsored by Berkeley Engineering alumni and friends as part of a $1.25M program that will be shared among…
September 29, 2020
Alessandro Chiesa receives 2020 Okawa Research Grant
CS Assistant Prof. Alessandro Chiesa has been selected as a 2020 Okawa Foundation Research Grant recipient for his work on the “Foundations of Quantum and Non-Signaling Proofs (Post-Quantum Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Secure Distributed Systems).”  Okawa Research Grants are awarded to Asian and American scholars for studies and analyses in the…
« Previous  Page
1
…
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions