URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/ee/page/4
EE Archives - Page 4 of 85 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: EE
June 26, 2025
Berkeley engineers develop customizable, 3D-printed robot for tech newbies
As an undergraduate student, Yufeng Chi (B.S.’23 EECS) was captivated by humanoid and legged robots. Eager to learn more, he would watch YouTube videos and dive into class projects, but getting hands-on experience and tinkering on his own was not easy. “I was interested in building my own version of…
June 24, 2025
Fast Company: This Perplexity cofounder wants to help AI breakthroughs graduate from university labs
Andy Konwinski (CS Ph.D. 2012), with help from Google’s Jeff Dean and other AI luminaries, has launched a new institute to help turn promising academic AI breakthroughs into open-source tools, startups, and real-world products while fostering an “AI for good” research culture.
June 12, 2025
May the Best Bot Win
Started as student side project, Chatbot Arena is now the AI industry’s scoreboard—and a $100 million startup
June 10, 2025
Michael Harrison has passed away
EECS Professor Emeritus Michael A. Harrison passed away on Saturday, June 7. He was 89. Professor Harrison earned his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan in 1963. That same year, he joined the University of California, Berkeley, as an assistant professor and spent most of his academic…
May 29, 2025
New MRI method offers deeper insight into brain physiology
In a study published in Nature Communications, EECS researchers demonstrate how their new imaging method, Displacement Spectrum (DiSpect) MRI, maps blood flows “in reverse” to reveal the source of blood in the brain’s veins. This approach could help answer long-standing questions about brain physiology as well as provide a…
May 28, 2025
Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey win the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award
EECS Teaching Professors Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey have been awarded the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) announced today in a press release. Garcia and Harvey were recognized “for their advocacy of and advances in education to bring the beauty and joy…
May 16, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 16, 2025
May 9, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 9, 2025
May 6, 2025
Jan Rabaey to Receive the John Choma Education Award
UC Berkeley EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey was selected as the winner of the John Choma Education Award for “for contributions to education and leadership in integrated circuits and systems.” This award is given by the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CAS) and was named to recognize John Choma, who was…
May 5, 2025
EECS faculty and alumni named to inaugural NSTC Technical Advisory Board
Natcast, the entity designated by the Department of Commerce to operate the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), has announced its inaugural Technical Advisory Board (TAB). This advisory board, established by the CHIPS and Science Act, brings together top experts to shape the NSTC’s research agenda, driving U.S. innovation and leadership…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
85
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions