URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/47
News Archive - Page 47 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 12, 2020
Ali Niknejad wins 2020 SIA University Research Award
EECS alumnus and Prof. Ali Niknejad (M.S. ’97/Ph.D. ’00, advisor: Robert Meyer) has won the 2020 Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) University Research Award.  This award recognizes researchers in both technology and design who have made “a lifetime of great impact to the semiconductor industry.”  Niknejad was cited for “noteworthy achievements…
November 9, 2020
Natacha Crooks wins 2020 ACM SIGOPS Dennis M. Ritchie dissertation award
CS Assistant Prof. Natacha Crooks has won the 2020 ACM Special Interest Group on Operating Systems (SIGOPS) Dennis M. Ritchie dissertation award for her thesis titled “A Client-Centric Approach to Transactional Datastores.”  The award, which recognizes creative research in software systems, was bestowed upon a dissertation which a colleague described…
October 30, 2020
Progress update:  E3S 2019 Transfer-to Excellence program
The Center for Energy Efficient Electronics Science (E3S) Transfer-to-Excellence (TTE) research program is a competitive merit-based program that offers California community college students research opportunities at Berkeley in an effort to encourage them to transfer to a university to purse a Bachelor’s degree in science and engineering.  A review of…
October 29, 2020
New “spin-orbit torque” switching technique breaks magnetic memory speed record
EECS Chair Jeffrey Bokor is among an international team of researchers who have published a paper in the journal Nature Electronics that describes a new technique for magnetization switching — the process used to “write” information into magnetic memory — that is nearly 100 times faster than state-of-the-art spintronic devices. The…
October 28, 2020
GRE-blind graduate admissions, expanded fee waivers highlight EECS focus on equity and diversity
As the largest department at UC Berkeley, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) [over 130 faculty, 730 graduate students, and 3,450 undergraduates] has long recognized the challenge of attracting, admitting, and graduating doctoral students who will enrich the diversity of the field. In the context of the recently heightened awareness…
October 26, 2020
Gabe Fierro wins inaugural Google – CMD-IT FLIP Dissertation Fellowship
EECS graduate student Gabriel Fierro (B.S. c. 2014, Ph.D. advisor: David Culler) has won an inaugural Google – CMD-IT FLIP Dissertation Fellowship.   He is one of 11 computer science scholars from underrepresented groups who were recognized this year for “positively influencing the direction and perspective of technology.”   The award…
October 26, 2020
“Extreme MRI” chosen as ISMRM Reproducible Research pick
“Extreme MRI: Large‐scale volumetric dynamic imaging from continuous non‐gated acquisitions,” a paper by EECS alumnus Frank Ong (B.S. ’13, Ph.D. ’18) and his advisor, Prof. Miki Lustig, has been chosen as October’s Reproducible Research pick by the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM).  The paper, in which the researchers…
October 15, 2020
Mike Stonebraker wins 2020 C&C Prize
EECS Prof. Emeritus Michael Stonebraker has won the prestigious NEC Computers and Communications (C&C) Prize “For Pioneering Contributions to Relational Database Systems.” The prize is awarded “to distinguished persons in recognition of outstanding contributions to research and development and/or pioneering work in the fields of semiconductors, computers, and/or telecommunications and…
October 10, 2020
Sheila Humphreys to join Carol Christ for Campus Conversation on 150W History Project
EECS Director Emerita of Diversity, Sheila Humphreys, will be joining Berkeley Chancellor Carol Christ and Prof. Emerita Catherine Gallagher for a Campus Conversation about the 150 Years of Women at Berkeley (150W) History Project, which Humphreys and Gallagher currently co-chair.  October marks the 150th anniversary of the UC Regents’ unanimous…
October 9, 2020
Berkeley Turing laureates take stand to protest immigration policies
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson has organized 24 fellow winners of the prestigious ACM A.M. Turing Award, including EECS Prof. Shafi Goldwasser and Profs. Emeritus Manuel Blum, Richard Karp, and Michael Stonebraker, to collectively endorse a presidential candidate as a protest against current government policies that restrict Chinese nationals from…
« Previous  Page
1
…
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions