URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/85
News Archive - Page 85 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 1, 2018
Valerie Taylor Named CEO and President of CMD-IT
EE alumna Valerie Taylor (M.S. ’86/Ph.D. ’91) has been promoted to the position of CEO and President of the Center for Minorities and People with Disabilities in Information Technology (CMD-IT).  CMD-IT is a national center comprised of corporations, academic institutions, government agencies, and non-profits, that is focused on engaging under-represented groups…
August 1, 2018
How Robot Hands Are Evolving to Do What Ours Can
The New York Times has published a front page article featuring research being done in the EECS department.  “How Robot Hands AreEvolving to Do What Ours Can” details how robotic hands could once only do what vast teams of engineers programmed them to do but–thanks to research…
July 30, 2018
Panamanian Hackers Unite!
The inaugural edition of PanamaHackea, an educational hackathon for the peoples of Panama, will be held on Saturday, September 29, 2018, in Torre de Las Américas, Panama City.  This event is the brainchild of 6 students from 4 schools, including Berkeley CS junior Rafael Félix, who hope to inspire and empower “a…
July 30, 2018
Five Questions for David Patterson
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson, winner of the 2017 ACM A.M. Turing Award, answers 5 questions posed by the Cal Alumni Association’s California Magazine.   Topics include the unsurpassed number of Berkeley Turing laureates, the dangers of AI, the RISC revolution, Patterson’s classic textbook on computer architecture, and how much…
July 27, 2018
Pieter Abbeel stresses cooperation key to advancing AI application
CS. Prof. Pieter Abbeel is the subject of a China Daily article titled “Professor stresses cooperation key to advancing AI application.”  Abbeel attended the China-US Entrepreneur and Investment Summit  in Santa Clara where he discussed recent advances and trends in artificial intelligence (AI) and applications in robotic automation, calling for…
July 27, 2018
Ming Wu and Steven Conolly named Bakar Fellows
EECS Profs. Ming Wu and Steven Conolly been selected for the Bakar Fellows Program, which supports faculty working to apply scientific discoveries to real-world issues in the fields of engineering, computer science, chemistry and biological and physical sciences.  Wu’s fellowship support will be used accelerate commercialization of his invention: a high-performing silicon photonic switch…
July 25, 2018
Nancy Amato is first woman to lead UI computer science department
CS alumna Nancy Amato (M.S. ’88, advisor: Manuel Blum) has been chosen to lead the highly ranked University of Illinois Department of Computer Science — the first woman to hold that position.  She will oversee a fast-growing department that has 80 faculty members and more than 2,400 students, plus 700…
July 25, 2018
Jitendra Malik takes position at Facebook
Facebook has announced that it has hired EECS Prof. Jitendra Malik in an effort to expand its artificial intelligence research.  Malik, one of the most influential researchers in computer vision, will be based at the Menlo Park lab, where Facebook Artificial Intelligence Research (FAIR) is headquartered.  He will retain part-time affiliation…
July 25, 2018
Dawn Tilbury: Shaping engineering research
EECS alumna Dawn Tilbury (M.S. ’92/Ph.D. ’94) is the subject of a Berkeley Engineering profile in honor of  the campus’s year-long 150th anniversary celebration.  As head of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Directorate for Engineering, which provides academic institutions with more than 40% of the federal grants for fundamental engineering…
July 23, 2018
Lensless Cameras May Offer Detailed Imaging of Neural Circuitry
EECS graduate students Nick Antipa and Grace Kuo, along their advisor Associate Prof. Laura Waller, have penned an article for Photonics Media titled “Lensless Cameras May Offer Detailed Imaging of Neural Circuitry” about a new architecture which could enable simultaneous monitoring of millions of neurons in 3D space at…
« Previous  Page
1
…
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions