URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/ee/page/5
EE Archives - Page 5 of 85 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: EE
May 2, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 2, 2025
April 24, 2025
Scientists trick the eye into seeing new color ‘olo’
In Frank Baum’s original novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Emerald City is said to be such a brilliant shade of green that visitors must wear green-tinted glasses to protect their eyes from “the brightness and glory” of the city. The glasses are one of the…
April 24, 2025
UC Berkeley celebrates opening of Grimes Engineering Center
Students, faculty, staff, key benefactors and the legendary Oski the Bear came together Monday for a festive celebration of the opening of the Grimes Engineering Center, a new hub on the north side of campus. UC Berkeley Engineering marked this exciting milestone — just two years after the building’s groundbreaking…
April 17, 2025
Broadcom expands support for UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab
Following VMware’s long-standing sponsorship, Broadcom is deepening its collaboration with UC Berkeley’s Sky Computing Lab through a $4 million gift. This expanded collaboration reinforces a shared commitment to innovation and interoperability, building on both organizations’ histories of addressing complex industry challenges through cutting-edge research. The Sky Computing Lab, and its…
April 16, 2025
UC Berkeley’s Marvell NanoLab gets high-tech boost with Lam Research gift
Researchers at UC Berkeley Engineering will soon have access to a multimillion-dollar semiconductor manufacturing system that will enable the fabrication of nanoscale semiconductor devices for next-generation chip technologies. Lam Research, headquartered in Fremont, Calif., has donated an innovative multi-chamber etching system to the Berkeley Marvell Nanofabrication Laboratory at…
April 15, 2025
Don’t sweat it! Wearable sweat sensor can track your hydration status during physical and mental activities
In a study recently published in Nature Electronics, researchers demonstrated how their sweat sensor measures electrodermal activity (EDA), an electrical property of the skin, to monitor hydration levels during physical activity. Until now, EDA, or skin conductance, has been thought to be effective at assessing only mental stress. These…
April 11, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | April 11, 2025
April 11, 2025
EECS Faculty and Alumni recognized with UC Berkeley Achievement Awards
Each year, UC Berkeley honors exceptional members of its community through the Achievement Awards. These awards recognize industry-shaping leaders, devoted alumni who have deeply impacted the campus, and young graduates whose early accomplishments show great promise. The awards are co-presented by the UC Berkeley Foundation and the Cal Alumni Association.
April 8, 2025
UC Berkeley computer science, electrical engineering graduate programs rank highly
UC Berkeley’s graduate programs in computer science, computer engineering and electrical engineering continue to receive high rankings by U.S. News & World Report, according to 2025 rankings released April 8. The following rankings were given to Berkeley graduate programs: #1 in…
April 4, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | April 4, 2025
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
85
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions