URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/and-robotics-cir
and Robotics (CIR) Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: and Robotics (CIR)
July 21, 2025
Four EECS Faculty win inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards
EECS Assistant Professors Natacha Crooks, Sagar Karandikar, Amy Pavel, and Rishabh Iyer have been selected to receive inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards. This prestigious award recognizes early-career faculty whose research is advancing the frontiers of machine learning and systems. Each award includes $100,000 in unrestricted research funding.
June 27, 2025
Sagar Karandikar wins 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award
EECS Assistant Professor Sagar Karandikar has been awarded the 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award. This prestigious honor recognizes exceptional doctoral research in the field of computer architecture.Karandikar was recognized “for advancing the state-of-the-art in agile hardware/software co-design tools and deploying them at a hyperscaler to architect custom…
June 27, 2025
EECS researchers win Best Robot Learning Paper Award at IEEE ICRA 2025
Professors Ken Goldberg, John Kubiatowicz, and their team of students and collaborators: Kaiyuan Chen, Letian Fu, David Huang, Yanxiang Zhang, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Huang Huang, Kush Hari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ted Xiao, and Pannag R Sanketi, have received the Best Robot Learning Paper Award at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics…
June 26, 2025
Berkeley engineers develop customizable, 3D-printed robot for tech newbies
As an undergraduate student, Yufeng Chi (B.S.’23 EECS) was captivated by humanoid and legged robots. Eager to learn more, he would watch YouTube videos and dive into class projects, but getting hands-on experience and tinkering on his own was not easy. “I was interested in building my own version of…
January 29, 2025
Using AI, these robots learn complicated skills with startling accuracy
At UC Berkeley, researchers in Sergey Levine’s Robotic AI and Learning Lab eyed a table where a tower of 39 Jenga blocks stood perfectly stacked. Then a white-and-black robot, its single limb doubled over like a hunched-over giraffe, zoomed toward the tower, brandishing a black leather whip. Through what might have…
View
Open Faculty Positions