URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/39
News Archive - Page 39 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
July 6, 2021
Nelson Morgan wins 2022 IEEE James L. Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award
EE Prof. Emeritus Nelson Morgan has won the 2022 James L. Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award, a prestigious IEEE Technical Field Award.  Morgan and co-recipient Herve Bourlard, who are known for their seminal work in the 1990s on a hybrid system approach to speech recognition that uses neural networks…
July 6, 2021
Kevin Cheang and Federico Mora win 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship
EECS Ph.D. students Kevin Cheang and Federico Mora (advisor: Sanjit A. Seshia) have been awarded a 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship (QiF) for their proposed project on “Practical Lifting for Verification of Trusted Platform Software.”  They are one of the sixteen winners of this year’s QiF North America competition, which recognizes…
June 29, 2021
Bin Yu awarded Honorary Doctorate from the University of Lausanne
CS Prof. Bin Yu has been awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Lausanne, Switzerland (UNIL).  Honoris causa doctorates are often conferred as a way of recognizing individuals who are unaffiliated with an institution but who have contributed to a specific field or to society in general.  Yu was cited…
June 23, 2021
Ken Goldberg: Professor and Artist
CS/IEOR/Art Practice Prof. Ken Goldberg, who is also affiliated with Radiation Oncology at UCSF, is the subject of an interview with Ron Latanision and Cameron Fletcher for the National Academy of Engineering. Goldberg discusses the relationship between art and science in Western culture, the dual nature of his career…
June 22, 2021
Stuart Russell named Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
CS Prof. Stuart Russell, has been named a 2021 Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE).  The Officer rank is the second of the order, and is bestowed by the Sovereign of the United Kingdom twice a year to reward valuable “services rendered to the United…
June 21, 2021
Jonathan Ragan-Kelley wins ACM SIGGRAPH 2021 Significant New Researcher Award
EECS Assistant Prof. Jonathan Ragan-Kelley is the recipient of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques (SIGGRAPH) 2021 Significant New Researcher Award.  The award honors researchers who are new to the field of computer graphics and who have made “recent, significant contributions to…
June 10, 2021
Five projects led by EECS faculty win AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards
Five projects led by EECS faculty have won C3.ai Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards. The awards recognize projects that are using AI techniques and digital transformation to advance energy efficiency and lead the way to a lower-carbon, higher-efficiency economy that will ensure energy and…
June 9, 2021
Jennifer Chayes wins 2020 ACM Distinguished Service Award
CS Prof. Jennifer Chayes, who is also the Associate Provost for the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), is the recipient of the 2020 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Distinguished Service Award.  She was selected for the award, which recognizes outstanding career-long “contributions to the computing community at…
June 7, 2021
Ion Stoica and Scott Shenker donate $50M for construction of new CDSS building
CS Profs. Ion Stoica and Scott Shenker have each donated $25M toward the construction of The Gateway, the new building that will house the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS).  The Gateway is conceived as “a planned nexus for collaborative, integrated data science and computing education and research…
June 7, 2021
Yang “Linda” Huang launches new novel:  My Good Son
EECS Instructional Support Group (ISG) systems administrator Yang “Linda” Huang, has just published her third book, My Good Son (University of New Orleans Press, May 2021).  The novel, described as “layered, evocative and engaging” by Ms Magazine, had been selected for the University of New Orleans (UNO) Publishing Lab Prize…
« Previous  Page
1
…
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions