URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/121
News Archive - Page 121 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
March 2, 2017
Ruzena Bajcsy and Robert Matthew are developing exoskeleton assistive devices for the people
Prof. Ruzena Bajcsy and EECS alumus student (now post doc in the HART Lab)  Robert Matthew (M.S. EE ’15) are featured in a Berkeley Research article titled “Engineering to Restore Power to the People”. Supported by the Signature’s Innovation Fellows Program, Matthew and Prof. Bajcsy have developed…
March 1, 2017
“Sweat sensor” tracks physiological changes from moment to moment
2016-17 Bakar Fellow Prof. Ali Javey is profiled in a Berkeley Research article titled “Physiological Changes Tracked Moment to Moment,” in which he discusses his research into a network of sensors that can be embedded into a sweatband to monitor moment-by-moment changes in electrolytes and metabolites.  Prof. Javey…
February 28, 2017
Philip Isola asks “Do machines see what I see?”
CS postdoctoral scholar Philip Isola (Associate Prof.  Alyosha Efros) is profiled in an an article in The Cornell Daily Sun titled “Computer Science Colloquium: Do Machines See What I See?” in which he discusses strategies that might allow systems to understand the visual world.  “My ultimate goal is…
February 24, 2017
Avideh Zakhor featured in interview by bigthink.com
Prof. Avideh Zakhor is featured in a video interview by bigthink.com titled “Smart Tech: Phones, Drones and Interior Mapping”. Prof. Zakhor’s research interests include digital signal processing and its applications to 2D and 3D image and video processing, and communications. Applications of her research range from helping emergency…
February 22, 2017
EECS joins 5G Innovators Initiative to explore the Industrial Internet of Things
UC Berkeley has joined Honeywell and GE as initial participants in the 5G Innovators Initiative (5GI2), an open industry initiative designed to create transformative experiences that change lives, businesses and society, launched by Ericsson  and Intel Corporation.  The first segment of 5GI2 will focus on the Industrial Internet of Things…
February 21, 2017
Gary May selected to be  Chancellor of UC Davis
Dr. Gary May has been selected to become the 7th Chancellor of UC Davis. Dr. May is an alumnus of EECS (M.S. ’88 and Ph.D. ’92) and was one of the founding members of the Black Graduate Engineering and Science Students (BGESS) group. In 2010, he was named Outstanding Electrical…
February 21, 2017
Ren Ng selected to receive 2017 Sloan Research Fellowship
Assistant Prof. Ren Ng has been selected to receive the 2017 Sloan Research Fellowship in the category of Computer Science. 126 early-career scholars are chosen to receive this prestigious award and represent the most promising scientific researchers working today. Since 1955, Sloan Research Fellows have gone on to…
February 17, 2017
Marti Hearst elected to the ACM SIGCHI Academy
Prof. Marti Hearst has been elected into the Association of Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM SIGCHI) Academy. The SIGCHI Academy is an honorary group of individuals who have made substantial contributions to the field of human-computer interaction. These are the principal leaders of the field,…
February 9, 2017
Ion Stoica discusses the challenges of securing data on the move
At the Spark Summit East 2017, CS Prof. Ion Stoica was interviewed  by theCUBE about The challenges of securing data on the move.   Prof. Stoica, who is the executive chairman at Databricks Inc, says that “Security is always a difficult topic. It means so many things to so many…
February 8, 2017
Tsu-Jae King Liu and Katherine Yelick elected to the NAE
Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu and Prof. Katherine Yelick have been elected to the National Academy of Engineers (NAE).  Election to membership in the NAE is among the highest forms of recognition of notable accomplishments in engineering. Prof. King Liu was recognized for “contributions to the fin field effect transistor (FinFET)…
« Previous  Page
1
…
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions