URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/61
News Archive - Page 61 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 23, 2019
“Oracle-Guided Component-Based Program Synthesis” wins 2020 ICSE Most Influential Paper Award
The paper “Oracle-Guided Component-Based Program Synthesis,” co-authored by alumnus Susmit Jha (M.S./Ph.D. ’11), Sumit Gulwani (Ph.D. ’05, advisor: George Necula), EECS Prof. Sanjit A. Seshia, and Ashish Tiwari–and part of Susmit Jha’s Ph.D. dissertation advised by Sanjit Seshia–will receive the 2020 Most Influential Paper Award by the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). ICSE is…
October 23, 2019
Using deep learning to expertly detect hemorrhages in brain scans
A computer algorithm co-developed by Vision Group alumnus Weicheng Kuo (Ph.D. ’19), post doc Christian Hӓne, their advisor Prof. Jitendra Malik, and researchers at UCSF, bested two out of four expert radiologists at finding tiny brain hemorrhages in head scans, an advance that one day may help doctors treat patients…
October 18, 2019
Corelight raises $50m for network traffic analysis in the cloud
Corelight, a start-up founded by CS Prof. Vern Paxson, has secured an additional $50 million in Series C financing for its network traffic analysis (NTA) solutions for cybersecurity.  The company has raised a total of $84 million to date, with investment from General Catalyst, Accel, Osage University Partners and Riverbed…
October 18, 2019
Alexandra von Meier explains why locally sourced power may be the solution to California’s vulnerable energy grid
EE Adjunct Prof. Alexandra von Meier, who is the director of the CITRIS California Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE)’s Electric Grid program, is the subject of a Berkeley News interview titled “Our energy grid is vulnerable. Locally sourced power may be the answer.”   In light of last week’s…
October 18, 2019
Ren Ng weighs in on why your photos are about to get a lot better
CS Prof. Ren Ng is quoted in a New York Times article titled “The Reason Your Photos Are About to Get a Lot Better.”  The article describes how computational photography is driving the future of phone cameras.  “Most photos you take these days are not a photo where you click the…
October 8, 2019
How to Stop Superhuman A.I. Before It Stops Us
EECS Prof. Stuart Russell has penned a New York Times Op-Ed titled “How to Stop Superhuman A.I. Before It Stops Us,” in which he explains why we need to design artificial intelligence that is beneficial, not just smart.  “Instead of building machines that exist to achieve their objectives,” he…
October 7, 2019
Pragya Kushwaha wins 2019 IEEE EDS Early Career Award
EECS Postdoctoral researcher Pragya Kushwaha, currently working with Prof. Chenming Hu and Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin in the Berkeley Short-channel IGFET Model (BSIM) group, has won a prestigious 2019 IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) Early Career Award.  This award is presented annually to an IEEE EDS member who has made early…
October 7, 2019
Berkeley EECS well represented at Tapia 2019
An outstanding group of students, faculty, staff, and alumni, represented Berkeley EECS at the 2019 ACM Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing, which took place in San Diego in September.  Attendees included:  Profs. Dan Garcia and Armando Fox;  staff Audrey Sillers, Antoine Davis, and Sheila Humphreys; alumni Valerie Taylor…
October 4, 2019
A Latinx Heritage Month profile of Dan Garcia
CS alumnus and Teaching Prof. Dan  Garcia (M.S. ‘ 95, Ph.D. ’00, advisor: Brian Barsky) is the subject of a profile celebrating Latinx Heritage Month in the EECS department.  As a Nuyorican whose father was from Puerto Rico, Garcia “always coveted” his Hispanic heritage and actively explored as much of…
October 2, 2019
Rod Brooks’ EECS Colloquium lecture makes IEEE Spectrum Video Friday
A video of the lecture that MIT Prof. Emeritus Rodney Brooks gave at last week’s EECS Joint Colloquium has made IEEE Spectrum’s Video Friday,  a weekly selection of “awesome robot videos.”  Brooks’ talk,  titled “Steps Toward Super Intelligence and the Search for a New Path,” examines what we might need…
« Previous  Page
1
…
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions