URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/38
News Archive - Page 38 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 29, 2021
BESAC wins 2021 Loyal Company Outstanding Volunteer Group Award
The UC Berkeley Black Engineering and Science Alumni Club (BESAC) has been selected by the Cal Alumni Association Board of Directors and the UC Berkeley Foundation Board of Trustees to receive the 2021 Loyal Company Outstanding Volunteer Group Award. This award “commends a volunteer group or alumni chapter that has maintained a meaningful relationship to Berkeley…
August 29, 2021
Gopala Anumanchipalli named Rose Hills Innovator
EECS Assistant Prof. Gopala Anumanchipalli has been selected for the Rose Hills Innovator Program which supports distinguished early-career UC Berkley faculty who are “interested in developing highly innovative research programs” in STEM fields.  The program will provide discretionary research support of up to $85,000 per year for “projects with an…
July 29, 2021
Sanjit Seshia wins Computer-Aided Verification Award
EECS Prof. Sanjit Seshia was a recipient of the CAV Award at the 2021 International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV) earlier this month.  This award is presented annually “for fundamental contributions to the field of Computer-Aided Verification,” and comes with a cash prize of $10K that is shared equally among…
July 29, 2021
NSF awards $20M for researchers to launch National AI Institute for Advances in Optimization
A team of researchers from UC Berkeley, Georgia Tech, and USC, have been awarded $20M by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to launch an institute which will deploy AI to tackle massive optimization challenges.  The researchers hope the new National Artificial Intelligence (AI) Institute for Advances in Optimization will deliver a…
July 27, 2021
Yang You receives honorable mention for ACM SIGHPC Dissertation Award
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel)  was named as one of two honorable mentions for the 2020 ACM Special Interest Group in High Performance Computing (SIGHPC) Dissertation Award.  You was selected for developing LARS (Layer-wise Adaptive Rate Scaling) and LAMB (Layer-wise Adaptive Moments for Batch training) to…
July 19, 2021
Sam Kumar wins OSDI Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award
CS graduate student Sam Kumar (advisors: David Culler and Raluca Ada Popa) has won the Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award at the 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) for “MAGE: Nearly Zero-Cost Virtual Memory for Secure Computation.”   The OSDI, which brings together “professionals from academic and industrial…
July 13, 2021
Deanna Gelosi wins Best Full Paper Award at ACM IDC 2021
“PlushPal: Storytelling with Interactive Plush Toys and Machine Learning,” co-authored by CS Masters student Deanna Gelosi (advisor: Dan Garcia), has won the Best Full Paper Award at the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Interaction Design for Children (IDC) conference 2021.  IDC is “the premier international conference for researchers, educators and…
July 9, 2021
New AI system allows legged robots to navigate unfamiliar terrain in real time
A new AI system, Rapid Motor Adaptation (RMA), enhances the ability of legged robots, without prior experience or calibration, to adapt to, and traverse, unfamiliar terrain in real time.  A test robot figured out how to walk on sand, mud, and tall grass, as well as piles of dirt, pebbles,…
July 6, 2021
Armando Fox, John DeNero, and Kathy Yelick named CDSS associate deans
Three EECS faculty have been named associate deans for the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS).  CS Prof. Armando Fox is the associate dean of online programs; CS Prof. John DeNero is the associate dean of undergraduate studies; and EE Prof. Katherine Yelick is transitioning from her role…
July 6, 2021
Pieter Abbeel wins 2022 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Award
CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel has won the 2022 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Award, a prestigious Technical Field Award that recognizes “outstanding early to mid-career contributions to technologies holding the promise of innovative applications.”  Abbeel, who is the director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab, co-director of the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR)…
« Previous  Page
1
…
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions