URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/25
Research Archives - Page 25 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
September 7, 2021
Boubacar Kanté publishes paper introducing additional control knob for optical phase engineering
EECS Associate Prof. Boubacar Kanté is among the authors of a paper published in the journal Science titled “Plasmonic topological metasurface by encircling an exceptional point.”  The paper introduces “an additional degree of freedom to address optical phase engineering by exploiting the topological features of non-Hermitian matrices operating near [the]…
September 7, 2021
EPIC Lab receives $2M NSF grant to build tools for criminal justice big datasets
CS Prof. Joseph Hellerstein, and Assistant Profs. Aditya Parmeswaran and Sarah Chasins, are among the principal investigators of a new lab that has just received a $2M grant from the National Science Foundation to make big datasets used by the criminal justice system more accessible to non-technical researchers.  The Effective…
August 29, 2021
Gopala Anumanchipalli named Rose Hills Innovator
EECS Assistant Prof. Gopala Anumanchipalli has been selected for the Rose Hills Innovator Program which supports distinguished early-career UC Berkley faculty who are “interested in developing highly innovative research programs” in STEM fields.  The program will provide discretionary research support of up to $85,000 per year for “projects with an…
July 29, 2021
Sanjit Seshia wins Computer-Aided Verification Award
EECS Prof. Sanjit Seshia was a recipient of the CAV Award at the 2021 International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV) earlier this month.  This award is presented annually “for fundamental contributions to the field of Computer-Aided Verification,” and comes with a cash prize of $10K that is shared equally among…
July 29, 2021
NSF awards $20M for researchers to launch National AI Institute for Advances in Optimization
A team of researchers from UC Berkeley, Georgia Tech, and USC, have been awarded $20M by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to launch an institute which will deploy AI to tackle massive optimization challenges.  The researchers hope the new National Artificial Intelligence (AI) Institute for Advances in Optimization will deliver a…
July 27, 2021
Yang You receives honorable mention for ACM SIGHPC Dissertation Award
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel)  was named as one of two honorable mentions for the 2020 ACM Special Interest Group in High Performance Computing (SIGHPC) Dissertation Award.  You was selected for developing LARS (Layer-wise Adaptive Rate Scaling) and LAMB (Layer-wise Adaptive Moments for Batch training) to…
July 19, 2021
Sam Kumar wins OSDI Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award
CS graduate student Sam Kumar (advisors: David Culler and Raluca Ada Popa) has won the Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award at the 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) for “MAGE: Nearly Zero-Cost Virtual Memory for Secure Computation.”   The OSDI, which brings together “professionals from academic and industrial…
July 13, 2021
Deanna Gelosi wins Best Full Paper Award at ACM IDC 2021
“PlushPal: Storytelling with Interactive Plush Toys and Machine Learning,” co-authored by CS Masters student Deanna Gelosi (advisor: Dan Garcia), has won the Best Full Paper Award at the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Interaction Design for Children (IDC) conference 2021.  IDC is “the premier international conference for researchers, educators and…
July 9, 2021
New AI system allows legged robots to navigate unfamiliar terrain in real time
A new AI system, Rapid Motor Adaptation (RMA), enhances the ability of legged robots, without prior experience or calibration, to adapt to, and traverse, unfamiliar terrain in real time.  A test robot figured out how to walk on sand, mud, and tall grass, as well as piles of dirt, pebbles,…
July 6, 2021
Pieter Abbeel wins 2022 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Award
CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel has won the 2022 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Award, a prestigious Technical Field Award that recognizes “outstanding early to mid-career contributions to technologies holding the promise of innovative applications.”  Abbeel, who is the director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab, co-director of the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR)…
« Previous  Page
1
…
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions