URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/88
News Archive - Page 88 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
June 13, 2018
Jyuo-Min Shyu elected to board of UMC
2016 EE Distinguished Alumnus Jyuo-Min Shyu (Ph.D. ’88) has been named a non-Executive Director of United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), a “leading global semiconductor foundry that provides advanced IC production for applications spanning all major sectors of the electronics industry.” Shyu, who is  currently a professor of computer science at National…
June 8, 2018
Margaret Yau named Crafton Hills College Professor of the Year
Alumna Margaret Yau (B.S. EECS ’04) has been named a 2017-18 Professor of the Year by Crafton Hills College, a community college in Yucaipa, California.  She was part of the Undergraduate Research Apprentice Program (URAP) from 2002-4, won a Jim and Donna Gray scholarship in 2003, and became a CRA…
June 7, 2018
Tiffany Perumpail wins Teaching Effectiveness Award
EECS undergraduate Tiffany Perumpail has won a Teaching Effectiveness Award (TEA) from the UC Berkeley Graduate Division.  This very competitive award is bestowed annually by the Graduate Council’s Faculty Advisory Committee for GSI Affairs.  Applicants submit essays in which they identify a problem they encountered in teaching, explain their strategy…
June 7, 2018
Shankar Sastry on universities and the digital transformation of society
Prof. Shankar Sastry, dean of the College of Engineering, has written an article in Berkeley Engineer magazine about the radical transformation of technology and our world.  He explores how new technologies are impacting different sectors of society and how universities can help, not just through cutting edge research, but also…
June 5, 2018
Emerald Templeton and Eric Fraser win BSA Excellence in Management Awards
Emerald Templeton, the Director of L&S CS Undergraduate Affairs, and Eric Fraser,  Assistant Dean and Director of Information Technology in the College of Engineering, have won  Berkeley Staff Assembly (BSA) Excellence in Management (EIM) Awards.   This year’s theme was “Building Pride & Trust In Our Changing Community,” recognizing managers and…
June 5, 2018
Susan Eggers is first woman to receive ACM – IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award
Susan Eggers (Ph.D. ’89), the 2009 CS Distinguished Alumna, is the recipient of the 2018 ACM-IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award–the first woman so honored in the award’s 39 year history.  The award is administered jointly by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE),…
June 4, 2018
Michael Chen awarded SPIE Optics and Photonics Education Scholarship
Grad student Michael Chen (advisor:  Laura Waller) has been awarded a 2018 Optics and Photonics Education Scholarship by SPIE, the international society for optics and photonics, for his potential contributions to the field of optics, photonics or related field.  Chen works in the Computational Imaging Lab where he focuses on…
May 31, 2018
Ekta Singh-Bushell appointed to board of Datatec
Alumna Ekta Singh-Bushell (M.S. ’95), the former Chief Operating Officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has been appointed to the board of directors for Datatec, South Africa’s biggest Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed tech firm.  Singh-Bushell will also be a member of Datatec’s audit, risk & compliance committee and on…
May 31, 2018
Eric Schmidt urges Californians to support UC
1997 CS Distinguished Alumnus Eric Schmidt (M.S. ’79, Ph.D. ‘82), the former executive chairman of Google, has penned an article for the Sacramento Bee titled “You don’t need to be the head of Google to know what needs to be done about the UC.”  In it, he describes how public…
May 31, 2018
PerfFuzz wins ISSTA18 Distinguished Paper Award
“PerfFuzz: Automatically Generating Pathological Inputs,” written by graduate students Caroline Lemieux and Rohan Padhye, and Profs. Koushik Sen and Dawn Song, will receive a Distinguished Paper Award from the ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA) 2018 in Amsterdam in July.  PerfFuzz is a method to automatically…
« Previous  Page
1
…
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions