URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/80
News Archive - Page 80 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 30, 2018
Robert Pilawa-Podgurski wins 2018 IEEE Education Society Van Valkenburg Award
EE Associate Prof. Robert Pilawa-Podgurski is the 2018 recipient of the IEEE Education Society Mac E. Van Valkenburg Award.  This award is given annually to an individual who has made outstanding contributions to teaching unusually early in their professional careers as evidenced by teaching performance, development of new teaching methods,…
October 29, 2018
Stuart Russell named Honorary Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford
Prof. Stuart Russell has been elected as an Honorary Fellow of Wadham College at Oxford University, his alma mater.  Warden of Wadham College, Ken Macdonald QC praised Russell for his scholarship in the field of Artificial Intelligence, his work with the United Nations and with former US President, Barack Obama.
October 26, 2018
Berkeley’s SkyDeck Offers Chip Design Support Worth Millions to Startups
Chip Track, the microchip design innovation segment of Berkeley startup accelerator SkyDeck, is profiled in an Xconomy article titled “Berkeley’s SkyDeck Offers Chip Design Support Worth Millions to Startups.”  Unlike software developers, chip inventors need cash up front to produce prototypes to show how they run.  “We’re talking about many…
October 26, 2018
EECS grad students, faculty, and alumni to participate in 2018 Rising Stars
CS graduate students Sarah Chasins (advisor: Ras Bodik), Orianna DeMasi (BIDS), Sandy Huang (advisors: Anca Dragan/Pieter Abbeel), and postdoc Angjoo Kanazawa (advisors: Jitendra Malik/Alyosha Efros/Trevor Darrell) will be participating in the Rising Stars career-building workshop for women in EECS, which will be held from Oct. 28-30, 2018 at MIT in…
October 26, 2018
Teresa Meng appointed to Ambarella Board of Directors
EECS alumna Theresa H. Meng (M.S. ’85/Ph.D. ’88 advisor: David Messerschmitt) has been named to the Board of Directors for Ambarella, Inc., a leading developer of low-power, HD and Ultra HD video processing semiconductors.  Meng is a Professor Emerita at Stanford University who took leave in 1998 to found Atheros…
October 26, 2018
Barbara Simons: Making Votes Count
2005 CS Distinguished Alumna Barbara Simons (Ph.D. ’81) is the subject of a Berkeley Engineering profile celebrating the 150th anniversary of U.C. Berkeley.  Simons, who is a past president of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), has been drawing attention to the pitfalls of electronic voting since 2003.  She’s a…
October 24, 2018
Data is “the coin of the realm”
Prof. David Wagner is at the center of an article in the San Francisco Chronicle titled “Data science, the ‘new Latin’ for students, in demand in Silicon Valley.”  Data science is one of the fastest-growing fields of study at Berkeley, but the field is in such demand that jobs far…
October 24, 2018
Dawn Song leads team to develop trusted AI
CS Prof. Dawn Song and her team are part of the new Center for Trustworthy Machine Learning funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). The NSF center, led by Pennsylvania State University and announced today, will focus on developing secure systems in the era of machine learning models. The center…
October 23, 2018
Laura Waller and Ming Wu named OSA Fellows
EE Prof. Ming Wu and Associate Prof. Laura Waller have been named Fellows of the Optical Society of America (OSA) class of 2019. OSA Fellows are members who have served with distinction in the advancement of optics and photonics. No more than 10 percent of the total OSA membership may…
October 16, 2018
Berkeley is #1 university open source contributor
UC Berkeley is the top ranked university in the third annual Octoverse Report list of “Open source contributions made by employees of different organizations,” with 2700 contributions.  Berkeley is the fourth ranked organization overall–after Microsoft, Google, and Red Hat.  The Octoverse Report is…
« Previous  Page
1
…
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions