URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/82
News Archive - Page 82 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 3, 2018
UC Berkeley named #2 Blockchain University by CoinDesk
UC Berkeley is ranked #2 on CoinDesk’s list of Top 10 Blockchain Universities.  Berkeley boasts “one of the most vibrant on-campus communities in the country. The student organization Blockchain@Berkeley both educates and builds products, performing paid consulting work for major companies like Airbus and Qualcomm. Berkeley’s law and business schools…
October 3, 2018
Joint UC Berkeley-UP Diliman mobile network project wins ISIF Asia Community Networks Award
A  low-cost community cellular networks project, run jointly by UC Berkeley (PI: CS Prof. Eric Brewer) and the University of Philippines-Diliman (UP-D), won the 2018 Information Society Innovation Fund (ISIF Asia) Community Networks Award.  “Village Base Station-Connecting Communities through Mobile Networks” (VBTS-CoCoMoNets) establishes community cellular networks (CCNs) in rural sites in…
October 3, 2018
Jeffrey Bokor awarded $1M to explore quantum technology
EE Professor Jeffrey Bokor, along with co-PI’s in Physics and Chemistry, were awarded a $1 million grant to explore a completely new qubit system composed of graphene nanoribbins (GNR), which have the potential for transformative quantum behavior that has never been tested. The project also has a significant educational component…
October 2, 2018
Ruzena Bajcsy celebrated with bobblehead at 2018 Grace Hopper Conference
The life and career of EECS Prof. Ruzena Bajcsy were celebrated with a commemorative bobblehead doll in her image at the 2018 Grace Hopper Conference (GHC) in Houston, Texas, last week.  Bajcsy was recognized alongside Engineering and CS legends Grace Hopper, Annie Easley, and Mae Jemison by GHC sponsor Liberty…
September 26, 2018
Elizaveta Tremsina places first in Tapia 2018 poster session
Undergraduate Elizaveta Tremsina, a member of the EECS Honors Program who is triple-majoring in CS, Physics and Applied Math, took first place in the Microsoft-sponsored student research poster competition at the 2018 ACM Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing.  Her project, titled “Your Story Recorded in a Magnet: Micromagnetic Simulations…
September 21, 2018
Lecture series with Turing laureates celebrates Berkeley’s ‘golden age’ of CS research
In celebration of the 50th anniversary of computer science at UC Berkeley and the university’s sesquicentennial, the EECS Department is launching a special series of lectures by winners of the ACM A.M. Turing Award, considered the field’s equivalent of a Nobel Prize.  The Turing laureates all have ties to UC…
September 19, 2018
Nico Deshler will present at Council on Undergraduate Research REU Symposium
Research undertaken by undergraduate student Nico Deshler will be presented at the Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR) Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Symposium in Alexandria, VA, on October 28-29.   Deshler’s project, “Multi-Sensor Arrays: Augmenting 3D Reconstruction Volumes for Mask-Based Computational Cameras,” was done as part of the CS Summer Undergraduate Program…
September 19, 2018
Connie Chang-Hasnain elected Vice-President of Optical Society of America
EE alumna and Prof. Connie Chang-Hasnain (Ph.D. ’87) has been elected 2019 Vice-President of the Optical Society of America (OSA).   Since 1916, OSA has been the world’s leading champion for optics and photonics, uniting and educating scientists, engineers, educators, technicians and business leaders worldwide to foster and promote technical and…
September 17, 2018
David Wang and Samantha Wathugala named 2019 Siebel Scholars
CS graduate students David Wang and Samantha Wathugala have been named to the Siebel Scholars Foundation’s 2019 class.  The Siebel Scholars program recognizes top students at the world’s leading graduate schools of bioengineering, business, computer science and energy science, and comes with a $35,000 award.  Wathugala applies state-of-the-art deep learning…
September 13, 2018
Diamond dust enables low-cost, high-efficiency magnetic field detection
Researchers including EE Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin and postdoc Dominic Labanowski (Ph.D. ’17) have created a device that dramatically reduces the energy needed to power magnetic field detectors, which could revolutionize how we measure the magnetic fields that flow through our electronics, our bodies, and our planet.   The researchers found a…
« Previous  Page
1
…
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions