URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/resources/grads/visit-days/transportation
Transportation to Visit Days - EECS at Berkeley
Transportation to Visit Days
Travel Tip:  Be sure to have luggage tags with YOUR NAME on them on all your luggage. Some visitors borrow luggage for Visit Days and leave the nametags of the lenders on.  We advise against this.  Borrowed pieces of luggage should have the name of the visitor on them, not the name of the lender. It is difficult to return lost luggage if the visitor’s name is not on their luggage. Also, luggage lost in the airline system with no name or someone else’s name might be permanently lost.
How to Reach Berkeley
The U.C. Berkeley  campus  is located 30 minutes from the  Oakland International Airport   and 60 minutes from the San Francisco International Airport.   Shuttle services, buses, and the electric train system  Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)   are available from the airports to Berkeley.
Public Transportation
From San Francisco International Airport:  The easiest way to get from the San Francisco Airport to Berkeley is  Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART).   A Richmond train will take you directly to the Downtown Berkeley station, which is one block from the campus and a 10 minute walk from Cory and Soda Halls.  Please note  that some BART lines run on different schedules for nights and weekends, and you may need to take a Pittsburg/Baypoint train and transfer to a Richmond train at the 12th Street station in Oakland. You can use BART’s  QuickPlanner  to help with your trip planning. The cost of a one-way BART ticket from SFO is about $9.55.
From Oakland International Airport:  The  Oakland Airport Connector   costs $8.60 and departs every 5-20 minutes to the Coliseum BART station. Take a Richmond train to the Downtown Berkeley station, which is one block from campus. Southwest Airlines and Jetblue are the main carriers for Oakland.
Shuttles from Stanford
For those who are also participating in Stanford’s EE or CS Visit Days, a shuttle will pick you up at Stanford and drop you off either at the Graduate Berkeley Hotel or at the U.C. Berkeley campus. Graduate student hosts will be at each location to meet you and help you get settled. More details on this to come.
Taxis, Rideshares, and Rental Cars
Cabfare from the Oakland Airport to downtown Berkeley is approximately $52, and ridesheares cost approximately $35. Cabfare from the San Francisco Airport to downtown Berkeley is approximately $95, and rideshares cost approxiamtely $50. Keep in mind that rideshare pricing is subject to increases, particularly during surge/prime hours. For rideshares that cost more than $75, please find information on our  reimbursement page . Most major car rental agencies, including  Hertz  and  Avis,  are located at both airports.
Arriving by Car
Directions
Parking
Parking is very limited in the city of Berkeley so, if possible, we highly recommend that you take public transportation. Although street parking is free on Sundays, it is limited and there are 1-hour parking restrictions during the weekdays. There is, however, the  Stadium Parking Garage  and many  private garages  near the campus. A campus parking permit may also be reserved in advance by contacting  Patrick Hernan .
Resources
Information for Current Students
Broadening Participation in EECS
Department Policy on Academic Misconduct
Wellness Resources
Student Concerns and Grievances
Student Computing and Email
Curricular Practical Training (CPT)
Resources for Faculty and Staff
Staff Contact Quick List
Administrative Services
Course and Instructional Support
Academic Personnel Information
Event Planning Calendar
Undergraduate Faculty Advising – for Faculty
Staff IT Procedures
Graduate Student Review Information for Faculty
My EECS Info Guide
A Guide to IEEE and ACM Awards
Academic Personnel Information
Center for Student Affairs
Visiting Research Scholars
Prospective Visiting Scholar Information & Applications
New Visiting Scholar Information
Information for Current Graduate Students
Grad Student Visit Days
Graduate Advisors
EECS Technical Memorandum Series Policy
M.Eng. Student Guide
M.S. and Ph.D. Class Information and Scheduling
Readmission and Re-Enrollment to the EECS Department
Pre-Faculty Preparation
Forms for Current Graduate Students
Information for Current Undergraduate Students
Undergraduate Research
Honors Program
Accel Scholars Program
Information for New EECS Students
EECS Major Information
CS Major Information
Preparing for Graduate School
Tutoring and Counseling
Undergraduate Faculty Advising  – for Students
Undergraduate Scholarships
EECS Study Abroad Program
Facilitating EECS DeCal Classes
Undergraduate FAQs and Advice
Undergraduate Programs and Scholarships
Undergraduate Minors
ECE Major Information
Information for ASEs
Guide for Prospective ASEs
Guide for Current ASEs
Facilities, Safety and Space Management
About Reserving Cory and Soda Hall Rooms
EECS Department Space Policy
Soda Hall Space Policy
Principles of Soda Hall Space Allocation
Department Vehicle Use Policy & Procedures
EECS Safety Manual
Login URLs for EECS and Campus Resources
View
Open Faculty Positions