URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/30
News Archive - Page 30 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
May 16, 2022
Angjoo Kanazawa wins  Society of Helman Fellows Evergreen Fellowship
CS Assistant Prof. Angjoo Kanazawa has won the Society of Hellman Fellows Evergreen Fellowship.  The Society of Hellman Fellows is an endowed UC program administered by the Vice Provost for the Faculty that provides research funding “to promising assistant professors who show capacity for great distinction in their chosen fields.” …
May 12, 2022
Raluca Ada Popa wins 2021 ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award
EECS Associate Prof. Raluca Ada Popa is the recipient of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Grace Murray Hopper Award.  This award recognizes an outstanding young computer professional who has made a single recent major technical or service contribution to the field of computer science before the age of 35.  Popa was recognized…
May 11, 2022
Kam Lau wins Caltech Distinguished Alumni Award
EECS Prof. Emeritus Kam Lau, has won the 2022 California Institute of Technology Distinguished Alumni Award, the highest honor presented by Caltech to its alumni.  He was cited “for extraordinary contributions to society as an engineer, entrepreneur, and artist.” Lau is known for his pioneering developments and commercialization of RF…
May 5, 2022
Finsen Chiu wins BSA Excellence in Management Award
Finsen Chiu, the EECS Instructional Support Group Manager, has won a Berkeley Staff Assembly (BSA) 2022 Excellence in Management (EIM) Award.  This award “honors exemplary non-academic managers and supervisors who have led their teams and team members to meaningful accomplishments this past year.”  The 2022 theme, building and maintaining community,…
May 4, 2022
Putri Karunia’s Typedream allows users to build no-code websites
EECS alumna Putri Karunia (B.S. ’19) who co-founded 2022 Forbes 30-Under-30 Enterprise Tech company “Typedream,” is the subject of a profile titled “Putri Karunia proves that women not only belong in tech startups, but will actually make them more successful and profitable.” Karunia, who was raised in Indonesia, graduated cum…
April 26, 2022
Amanda Jackson, Samantha Coday, Kelly Fernandez, and Rose Abramson win IEEE APEC best presentation awards
Four EECS students in Robert Pilawa-Podgurski’s lab have won best presentation awards for papers they presented at the 2022 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC) in March.  Three Technical Lecture Awards were won by:  undergraduate EECS student Amanda Jackson for “A Capacitively-Isolated Dual Extended LC-Tank Converter with 50% Two-Phase Operation…
April 26, 2022
Rediet Abebe named 2022 Carnegie Fellow
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe has been named to the 2022 class of Andrew Carnegie Fellows.  This fellowship recognizes “scholars and writers in the humanities and social sciences” who are addressing “important and enduring issues confronting our society.”  Abebe’s research is in algorithms and artificial intelligence, with a focus on…
April 19, 2022
Chase Norman selected to participate in the Heidelberg Laureate Forum
CS undergraduate student Chase Norman is among 200 young mathematics and computer science researchers selected from across the globe to attend the 9th Heidelberg Laureate Forum (HLF) in Germany this September. During the week-long conference, participants will share ideas with some of the “most exceptional mathematicians and computer scientists of…
April 18, 2022
Noam Nisan,  Kimberly Keeton, Bruce Hajek and Nickhil Jakatdar named 2022 Berkeley EECS Distinguished Alumni
Congratulations to the winners of the 2022 EECS Distinguished Alumni Awards!  The CS winners are Noam Nisan (academia) and Kimberly Keeton (industry); and the EE winners are Bruce Hajek (academia) and Nickhil Jakatdar (industry). Noam Nisan (Ph.D. 1988, advisor: Richard Karp), currently a CS professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem,…
April 13, 2022
Dave Epstein wins 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship
CS graduate student Dave Epstein (advisor: Alexei Efros) has won a 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Graduate Fellowship for New Americans.  This fellowship recognizes outstanding graduate students who are immigrants and children of immigrants in the United States, and “who are poised to make significant contributions to US society, culture…
« Previous  Page
1
…
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions