URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs/page/2
EECS Archives - Page 2 of 21 - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
December 10, 2025
The 2025 EECS Distinguished Alumni
The EECS Department is proud to present the 2025 Distinguished Alumni Awards in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. The Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences has established a Distinguished Alumni Award to recognize valuable contributions made by the distinguished alumni of Berkeley to the fields of Electrical Engineering and…
December 8, 2025
Serina Chang named in Forbes 30 Under 30
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, a rising star in AI and computational health research, has been named to Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in the healthcare category, a recognition reserved for individuals under 30 who are making significant strides in health, technology, and social impact.
December 5, 2025
Rahul Iyer and Yicheng Zhu win PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk Award
Dr. Rahul Iyer and Dr. Yicheng Zhu, members of EECS Professor Robert Pilawa Podgurski’s research group, have received the PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk Award for their outstanding doctoral research and presentations at the IEEE Power Electronics Society (PELS) conference. The PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk…
December 4, 2025
Michael I. Jordan receives major honors in China and Italy
EECS and Statistics Professor Emeritus Michael I. Jordan has been elected to two prestigious international academies: the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) as a Foreign Member, and the Italian Accademia di Ingegneria e Tecnologia (AICT).Election to CAS is among the highest honors bestowed by China’s national scientific…
December 2, 2025
Venkatesan Guruswami named Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing
Venkatesan Guruswami has been selected as the new director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley, following an international search. The Simons Institute is the world’s foremost center for collaborative research in theoretical computer science, bringing together scholars to tackle foundational questions…
November 17, 2025
Sayeef Salahuddin receives James C. McGroddy Prize for New Materials
Sayeef Salahuddin, the TSMC Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, was awarded the 2026 James C. McGroddy Prize for New Materials “for the discovery of ferroelectricity in ultra thin hafnium based oxides and their implementation in microelectronic devices.”…
November 12, 2025
UC Berkeley’s introductory machine learning course gets optimized for the AI age
As artificial intelligence technology continues advancing at a breakneck pace, faculty at UC Berkeley are optimizing computer science courses to keep undergraduate students informed and prepared for changing careers in the tech industry and beyond.
November 6, 2025
Dawn Song selected as an AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences
Professor Dawn Song was selected as a 2025 AI2050 Senior Fellow by Schmidt Sciences. The fellowship honors researchers advancing responsible innovation and the development of AI that benefits humanity. This year’s cohort includes 28 researchers from eight countries who will receive more than…
November 6, 2025
Emma Pierson named Zhang Family Endowed Professor
Emma Pierson, who joined EECS earlier this year, was named the department’s Zhang Family Endowed Professor. Hao Zhang, M.A. ’05, Ph.D ’07, contributed $1 million to establish the endowment and support junior faculty working on artificial intelligence. Pierson’s research has many…
October 21, 2025
EECS students drive AI innovation as Amazon PhD Fellows
Today, Amazon announced its new AI PhD Fellowship program, offering two years of funding to over 100 PhD students across nine universities. Ten of these inaugural fellowships have been awarded to graduate students from UC Berkeley EECS’ Sky Computing Lab, supporting cutting-edge research in core AI disciplines like machine…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions