URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/honors/page/24
Honors Archives - Page 24 of 71 - EECS at Berkeley
Honors
October 4, 2021
Yang You wins IEEE CS TCHPC Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel) has won the IEEE Computer Society Technical Consortium on High Performance Computing (TCHPC) Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing.  The focus of his research is efficient deep learning on distributed systems. He is known for developing the industry benchmark…
October 1, 2021
Sumit Gulwani wins Max Planck-Humboldt Medal
Sumit Gulwani (Ph.D. ’05, advisor: George Necula), now a Partner Research Manager at Microsoft Research in Redmond, Washington, has been selected to receive the 2021 Max Planck-Humboldt Medal for “automatic programming and computational education.”  Gulwani, who won the ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation award and the MSR Ph.d. Fellowship while at Berkeley,…
September 30, 2021
Kathy Yelick named UC Berkeley’s new vice chancellor for research
CS Prof. Katherine Yelick has been named UC Berkeley’s next vice chancellor for research.  She will take over the role from EECS Prof. Randy Katz on January 1, 2022.  Yelick is an expert in the field of parallel computing and currently serves as executive associate dean in the Division of…
September 24, 2021
Sagnik Bhattacharya and Jay Shenoy named 2022 Siebel Scholars
Graduate students Sagnik Bhattacharya (B.A. CS and Statistics ’21) and Jay Shenoy (B.A. CS ’21) are recipients of the 2022 Siebel Scholars award.  The Siebel Scholars program annually recognizes “exceptional students from the world’s leading graduate schools of business, computer science, and bioengineering.”  Bhattacharya, a 5th Year Masters student and…
August 29, 2021
BESAC wins 2021 Loyal Company Outstanding Volunteer Group Award
The UC Berkeley Black Engineering and Science Alumni Club (BESAC) has been selected by the Cal Alumni Association Board of Directors and the UC Berkeley Foundation Board of Trustees to receive the 2021 Loyal Company Outstanding Volunteer Group Award. This award “commends a volunteer group or alumni chapter that has maintained a meaningful relationship to Berkeley…
August 29, 2021
Gopala Anumanchipalli named Rose Hills Innovator
EECS Assistant Prof. Gopala Anumanchipalli has been selected for the Rose Hills Innovator Program which supports distinguished early-career UC Berkley faculty who are “interested in developing highly innovative research programs” in STEM fields.  The program will provide discretionary research support of up to $85,000 per year for “projects with an…
July 29, 2021
Sanjit Seshia wins Computer-Aided Verification Award
EECS Prof. Sanjit Seshia was a recipient of the CAV Award at the 2021 International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV) earlier this month.  This award is presented annually “for fundamental contributions to the field of Computer-Aided Verification,” and comes with a cash prize of $10K that is shared equally among…
July 19, 2021
Sam Kumar wins OSDI Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award
CS graduate student Sam Kumar (advisors: David Culler and Raluca Ada Popa) has won the Jay Lepreau Best Paper Award at the 15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) for “MAGE: Nearly Zero-Cost Virtual Memory for Secure Computation.”   The OSDI, which brings together “professionals from academic and industrial…
July 13, 2021
Deanna Gelosi wins Best Full Paper Award at ACM IDC 2021
“PlushPal: Storytelling with Interactive Plush Toys and Machine Learning,” co-authored by CS Masters student Deanna Gelosi (advisor: Dan Garcia), has won the Best Full Paper Award at the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Interaction Design for Children (IDC) conference 2021.  IDC is “the premier international conference for researchers, educators and…
July 6, 2021
Armando Fox, John DeNero, and Kathy Yelick named CDSS associate deans
Three EECS faculty have been named associate deans for the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS).  CS Prof. Armando Fox is the associate dean of online programs; CS Prof. John DeNero is the associate dean of undergraduate studies; and EE Prof. Katherine Yelick is transitioning from her role…
« Previous  Page
1
…
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
…
71
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions