URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/100
News Archive - Page 100 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
December 11, 2017
Berkeley FLIPs for Diversity
When Dan Garcia first attended UC Berkeley as a graduate student, he was amazed at the many different faces and key spaces that make up the world’s top…
December 6, 2017
Randy Katz named Berkeley’s next Vice Chancellor for Research
United Microelectronics Corporation Distinguished Prof. Randy Katz (also alumnus, Ph.D. ’80) has been appointed Vice Chancellor for Research at UC Berkeley.  Katz helped pioneer many technologies that are ubiquitous today, like  wide-area wireless networks for mobile devices, cloud-based applications and cloud storage,  and ways of managing and protecting computer networks. …
December 5, 2017
New robots predict their future by learning like babies
Prof. Sergey Levine and grad students Chelsea Finn and Frederik Ebert have developed a robotic learning technology called visual foresight that enables robots to imagine the future of their actions so they can figure out how to manipulate objects they have never encountered before. “This can enable intelligent planning of highly…
December 4, 2017
Biomimetic Millisystems: designs from nature
Prof. Ron Fearing, grad student Justin Yim, and the Biomimetic Millisystems Lab are featured in a New Straits Times article titled “Designs from nature,” which explores the ways that lab scientists apply observations of animals in an attempt to mimic their motions over land, air and underwater to propel revolutionary…
December 2, 2017
Diane Greene makes 2017 Bloomberg 50
CS alumna…
December 1, 2017
Harlan Yu shines a light on the civil-rights dimensions of a wired world
EECS alumnus and civil rights leader Harlan Yu (B.S. ’04) is appealing to CS departments to show students how they can “pull on various levers of policy” to keep the public protected.  Yu, who is now the Executive Director of a non-profit tech-policy consulting group called Upturn, is the focus…
December 1, 2017
Sameera Vemulapalli named runner-up for 2018 Alice T. Schafer Prize
Math and L&S CS major Sameera Vemulapalli has been named Runner-up for the 2018 Alice T. Schafer Prize for Excellence in Mathematics by an Undergraduate Woman. The Schafer Prize is awarded annually by the Association for Women in Mathematics (AWM) to the most outstanding woman mathematics undergraduate in the United…
November 29, 2017
Keshab Parhi named AAAS Fellow
EECS alumnus Keshab Parhi (Ph.D. ’88) has been named a 2017 American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) fellow in recognition of his contributions to science and technology, scientific leadership and extraordinary achievements across disciplines.  He is currently the Edgar F. Johnson Professor of Electronic Communication and a Distinguished…
November 29, 2017
Allen Tang’s team wins data science competition
EECS Master’s student Allen Tang (also alumnus, B.A. CS/Statistics/ORMS) and his Berkeley teammates have won the Data Open Championship at the New York Stock Exchange.  The winners receive a $100,000 cash prize and possible job interviews with Citadel, a Chicago-based hedge fund firm. The competition was comprised of 20 one-day…
November 27, 2017
Ana Claudia Arias, Miki Lustig, and Joe Corea’s printable, wearable devices
Prof. Ana Claudia Arias, Prof. Miki Lustig, and graduate student Joseph Corea, are featured in a STAT article titled “Electronics ‘like a second skin’ make wearables more practical and MRIs safer for kids.”  The team is using printers loaded with a variety of high-tech inks (liquid silver nanoparticles, carbon…
« Previous  Page
1
…
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions