URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/90
News Archive - Page 90 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
May 15, 2018
Christopher Hegarty named CEO of ANCA Group
EE alumnus Chistopher Hegarty (Ph.D. ’91, advisor: Lawrence Rowe) has been appointed CEO of ANCA Group, a market leading manufacturer of CNC grinding machines.  Hegarty spent five years working for McKinsey and Company in Zurich before racking up extensive experience working for machine tool manufacturers in Europe and Australasia, including over…
May 14, 2018
Luke Strgar thinks that Blockchain can be used to track gun sales in America
Graduating CS senior Luke Strgar thinks he might have a solution for the fraught issue of guns in America: Use blockchain to track gun sales.  Strgar thinks that Blockchain offers the perfect balance between security, anonymity and scale that could please people on all sides of the gun-control debate.  He…
May 11, 2018
SiFive receives $50.6M in series C funding
SiFive, a fabless provider of customized semiconductors built on research by alumnus Yunsup Lee (MS ’11/Ph.D. ’16), alumnus Andrew Waterman (M.S. ’11/Ph.D. ’16), and Prof. Krste Asanović, received $50.6M in series C funding in April.  Lee is Chief Technology Officer,  Waterman is Chief Engineer, and Asanović is Chief Architect at…
May 11, 2018
Tony DeRose to speak at Blk Shp STEAM event
CS alumnus Tony DeRose (Ph.D. ’85), currently a senior scientist and lead researcher at Pixar, will speak at Indiana University on Saturday for a STEAM event sponsored by Blk Shp, a “loose guild” of socially conscious innovators.  DeRose works with a Young Makers Program that supports youth in “building ambitious,…
May 11, 2018
Nick Carlini embeds hidden commands to Alexa and Siri in recordings of music and spoken text
CS graduate student Nicholas Carlini  is featured in a New York Times article titled “Alexa and Siri Can Hear This Hidden Command. You Can’t.” He and his advisor, David Wagner, have published a paper showing they can embed audio instructions, undectable by human beings, directly into recordings of music or…
May 10, 2018
Rikky Muller is building brain implants to change lives
Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller is featured in an Institution of Mechanical Engineers” article titled “This machine can read your mind – engineers unlock secrets of the brain.”  The article explores some of the newest breakthroughs in brain-machine interfaces, and some of the obstacles encountered by researchers.  Muller, a co-founder of…
May 9, 2018
Jacque Garcia graduates a champion
Graduating CS senior Jacque Garcia, the president of Cal Boxing, is the focus of a Berkeley News article titled “Longtime fighter graduates as a champion.”  Garcia, who grew up in Compton and is known for her “mental toughness, determination, dedication and positive attitude,” won the 2018 132-pound National Collegiate Boxing…
May 7, 2018
Will Huang, Vedant Saran, and Alvin Wan are 2018 U.S. Imagine Cup Winners
Three EECS students are in the top two teams which won the U.S. Imagine Cup Finals in San Francisco this week.  In the three-day event, sponsored by Microsoft, competing teams from across the United States presented and demoed their tech projects to a panel of VIP judges.  Will Huang (EECS…
May 7, 2018
Alex Stamos to deliver Kahn lecture at CCNY
EECS alumnus Alex Stamos (B.S. ’01), currently the Chief Security Officer at Facebook, will be the featured speaker on May 10 at the 2018 Robert Kahn & Patrice Lyons Lecture, hosted by the Grove School of Engineering at the City College of New York (CCNY).   The title of his…
May 7, 2018
Leonard Shtargot named Analog Devices Fellow
EE alumnus Leonard Shtargot (B.S. ’01) has been awarded the title of Analog Devices Fellow, a distinguished technical position given to engineers who “contribute significantly to the company’s success through exceptional innovation, leadership and an unparalleled ability to unite and mentor others.”  Shtargot joined Linear Technology after graduation and is…
« Previous  Page
1
…
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions