URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/cs
CS Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Division: CS
March 11, 2026
Eric Paulos elected to the ACM CHI Academy
The Association for Computing Machinery’s Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM SIGCHI) has elected Eric Paulos, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, to the ACM CHI Academy. Paulos is one of eleven individuals inducted to the Academy this year. The CHI Academy…
February 17, 2026
Three UC Berkeley EECS faculty named 2026 Sloan Fellows
Three early-career faculty in the UC Berkeley Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) – Yuan Cao, Sarah E. Chasins, and John Wright – have been awarded prestigious 2026 Sloan Research Fellowships.
February 13, 2026
In Memoriam: Beresford Parlett (1932–2026)
Beresford Parlett, a pioneer in numerical analysis and a foundational figure in the history of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS), died on Saturday, Feb. 7. He was 93. Parlett held a joint appointment in the Department of Mathematics and the EECS, representing the…
February 9, 2026
AI research deluge: why one conference is asking authors to rank their own papers
Emma Pierson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, agrees that self-rankings are an “exciting possibility”. “You know which papers are your ‘baby’, which papers you really love,” she says. “I think the author’s own self-ranking would be one valuable source of input if you…
December 18, 2025
Umesh Vazirani and co-authors receive FOCS Test of Time Award
EECS Professor Umesh Vazirani and co-authors Aranyak Mehta, Amin Saberi, and Vijay Vazirani are recipients of the FOCS Test of Time Award for their 2005 paper, “AdWords and Generalized On-line Matching.” Presented annually at the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS)…
December 16, 2025
Randy Katz receives honorary doctorate from University of Crete
EECS Professor Emeritus Randy Katz will be awarded an honorary doctorate from the Department of Computer Science at the University of Crete. The honorary doctorate is a distinction awarded by the University of Crete to recognize outstanding achievements in scholarship, science, and societal impact.
December 15, 2025
The Economist: The next version of the web will be built for machines, not humans
Dawn Song, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, says marketers may need to pitch not to people, but to “agent attention”.
December 12, 2025
WIRED: Coding Support with Sarah Chasins
UC Berkeley Computer Science Professor Sarah Chasins joins WIRED to answer the internet’s burning questions about coding. How did programmers code the first ever code? What remnants of the early World Wide Web still exist online? Can someone still learn programming if they hate math? How do…
December 10, 2025
The 2025 EECS Distinguished Alumni
The EECS Department is proud to present the 2025 Distinguished Alumni Awards in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. The Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences has established a Distinguished Alumni Award to recognize valuable contributions made by the distinguished alumni of Berkeley to the fields of Electrical Engineering and…
December 8, 2025
Serina Chang named in Forbes 30 Under 30
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, a rising star in AI and computational health research, has been named to Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in the healthcare category, a recognition reserved for individuals under 30 who are making significant strides in health, technology, and social impact.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
104
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions