URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/109
News Archive - Page 109 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
September 9, 2017
Alex Montanez wins inaugural Hallac Scholarship
EECS sophomore Alex Montanez is part of the inaugural class of Hallac Scholars.  The program, sponsored by the global asset management firm BlackRock, combines scholarship, mentorship and internship to help students learn how engineers can use their skills to develop innovative tech for delivering financial services.  Although…
September 9, 2017
Armen Chouldjian helps increase BART’s safety and reliability
EECS senior Armen Chouldjian was one of 11 engineering interns, selected from more than 200 college applicants around the nation, to work in the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) Maintenance and Engineering Department.  His summer project was to take information-dense reports generated from various BART computer systems and make them…
September 9, 2017
Pieter Abbeel and Michael Jordan appointed  joint faculty in IEOR
CS Profs. Pieter Abbeel and Michael Jordan, two of the best-known experts in machine learning, have been appointed as joint faculty in the department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research (IEOR) in addition to their primary appointments in EECS (and Statistics for Jordan).  “Profs. Abbeel and Jordan are terrific colleagues that…
September 8, 2017
Berkeley ranks second in most venture capital-backed entrepreneurs in 2017
For the second year in a row, U.C. Berkeley has ranked No. 2 among the 50 undergraduate programs that produce the most venture capital-backed entrepreneurs, according to PitchBook’s 2017-18 report.  The report distinguishes undergraduate and MBA programs, compares Ivy League colleges to other universities and analyzes numbers such as companies…
September 7, 2017
UC Berkeley rises to the challenge of Data Science demand
Prof. David Wagner, who co-teaches CS C8: The Foundations of Data Science, and Prof. David Culler, interim dean of the new Division of Data Sciences,  are featured in a San Francisco Chronicle article titled “Universities rush to add data science majors as demand explodes.”   As worplace demand for data…
September 7, 2017
David Patterson responds to former Google employee’s memo about diversity
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson published an opinion piece in Wired in response to former Google employee James Damore’s memo, in which Damore stressed that women are biologically different and not suited to working in technology companies like Google.  Patterson, along with Maria Klawe of Harvey Mudd College and John Hennessy…
September 7, 2017
Sergey Levine explains how deep learning will unleash robotics
CS Assistant Prof. Sergey Levine explores how deep learning will unleash robotics in an NVIDIA AI Podcast which first aired on Sept 1st.  “One of the most important things is that you have to somehow communicate to the robot what it means to succeed,” Levine said in a conversation with…
September 6, 2017
Lotfi Zadeh has passed away
CS Prof. Lotfi Zadeh, known as the Father of Fuzzy Logic, passed away on the morning of September 6, 2017.  He was 96.  Zadeh touched many lives and had a tremendous impact on many scientific and technological fields.  He is best known as the founder of fuzzy mathematics, fuzzy set…
September 5, 2017
Edward A. Lee publishes new book, “Plato and the Nerd”
EE Prof. Edward A. Lee has published his first book for a general audience, Plato and the Nerd: The Creative Partnership of Humans and Technology  (MIT Press, 2017).  In it, Lee observes that engineering is a deeply intellectual and fundamentally inventive process and that the producers of digital technology…
August 31, 2017
Yang You wins ACM IEEE-CS George Michael Memorial Fellowship
Graduate student Yang You (advisor: James Demmel) has won a 2017 ACM IEEE Computer Society George Michael Memorial Fellowship for his work on designing accurate, fast, and scalable machine learning algorithms on distributed systems.   The award, which was named in honor of George Michael, one of the founding fathers…
« Previous  Page
1
…
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions