URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/81
News Archive - Page 81 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 15, 2018
Adnan Shihab-Eldin wins Haas International Award
EECS alumnus Adnan Shihab-Eldin (B.S. ’65) has won the 2017 Elise and Walter A. Haas International Award, which honors a Berkeley alumnus/a who is a native, citizen, and resident of another country and who has a distinguished record of service to that country in any field.  Shihab-Eldin is “a visionary…
October 15, 2018
New controller means fancier footwork for Salto-IP
Salto-IP, UC Berkeley’s one-legged jumping robot, has been outfitted with an upgraded controller which improves precision on landing.  The robot is featured in a TechXplore article titled “UC Berkeley team gives jumping robot higher goals than bouncy-bouncy.”   It describes a paper presented earlier this month at IROS 2018 in…
October 15, 2018
Undergraduates working to create smallest maneuverable satellite to fly into space
EECS undergraduates Aviral Pandey (EE lead), Olivia Hsu (board design/firmware), Kevin Zheng (board design/software/radio) and Malhar Patel (external/software), as well as Travis Brashears (Eng. Physics/EECS minor, tech lead) and Daniel Shen (MechE, software/mechanical) comprise  a team of Berkeley seniors who are creating what they hope will be the smallest maneuverable…
October 10, 2018
Randy Katz reflects on Berkeley’s Nobelists
EE Prof. Randy Katz, the current U.C. Berkeley Vice Chancellor for Research, reflects on how the use-inspired research of Berkeley Nobel Prize winners exemplifies the importance of that approach to scientific inquiry.   He illustrates the strength of use-inspired research by comparing it to basic (curiosity-driven) and applied (goal-driven) research, defining…
October 8, 2018
Urmila Mahadev Solves Quantum Verification Problem
CS postdoctoral researcher Urmila Mahadev (advisor: Umesh Vazirani) has come up with an interactive protocol by which users with no quantum powers of their own can employ cryptography to put a harness on a quantum computer and drive it wherever they want, with the certainty that the quantum computer is…
October 8, 2018
Celebrating Women in STEM: Video Game Designer Carol Shaw
EECS alumna Carol Shaw (EE B.S. ’77/CS M.S. ’78), one of the first female industrial video grame designers, is the subject of a University of Missouri, Kansas City News article celebrating women in STEM.   Shaw, who was always drawn to engineering and math, used punch cards and Fortran for her…
October 8, 2018
Today’s Entrepreneur: Allen Tsai
EECS alumnus Allen Tsai (B.S. ’00), the founder of startup Pani,  is profiled in the “Today’s Entrepreneur” column for startup and investor network, Vator.   Pani is a smart-home company that builds products to help consumers and utilities measure, monitor, and recycle water.  It recently raised $1 million in seed  funding…
October 8, 2018
Deborah Estrin receives MacArthur ‘genius’ award
2008 Distinguished CS Alumna Deborah Estrin (B.S. EECS  ’80) has been awarded a 2018 ‘genius’ grant from the the MacArthur Foundation.  Winners are chosen for “solving long-standing scientific and mathematical problems, pushing art forms into new and emerging territories, and addressing the urgent needs of under-resourced communities.”  Estrin completed…
October 5, 2018
Turnitin Acquires Gradescope
Turnitin, a leading provider of academic integrity and writing solutions, has acquired Gradescope, a class grading platform co-founded by CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel and alumni Arjun Singh (B.S. EECS ’10/Ph.D. CS ’16), Sergey Karayev (CS Ph.D. ’15), and Ibrahim Awwal (EECS B.S.
October 4, 2018
Corelight wins 2018 Network Security Innovation Award
Corelight, a cybersecurity startup co-founded by CS Prof. Vern Paxson, has won the 2018 Network Security Innovation Award from CyberSecurity Breakthrough, an independent organization that recognizes the top companies, technologies and products in the global information security market.  Corelight delivers “network visibility solutions for cybersecurity” by merging the power of an open…
« Previous  Page
1
…
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions