URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/68
News Archive - Page 68 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
June 3, 2019
Rikky Muller and Ren Ng named 2019 Hellman Faculty Fellows
Assistant Profs. Rikky Muller (EE) and Ren Ng (CS) have been selected to receive awards from the Hellman Faculty Fellows Fund.  The fund supports “substantially the research of promising assistant professors who show capacity for great distinction in their research.”   Muller won for “Networks of Neural Dust” and Ng won…
June 3, 2019
Alvin Cheung wins 2019 ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Award
Assistant Prof. Alvin Cheung has won an Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Software Engineering (SIGSOFT) Distinguished Paper Award at the 2019 International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE).  The paper, titled “View-Centric Performance Optimization for Database-Backed Web Applications,” was co-authored by his student at the University of…
June 1, 2019
The Essential Interview: Ken Goldberg
Prof. Ken Goldberg is the subject of an interview in Robotics Business Review (RBR) Insider with the tag line “Working at the intersection of art, robotics, and social media, Dr. Ken Goldberg shares his thoughts on making robots less clumsy when grabbing objects.”  Goldberg has a joint appointment in IEOR…
May 30, 2019
Justin Yim wins Best Student Paper Award at ICRA 2019
EECS PhD student Justin Yim (with advisor EECS Prof. Ron Fearing and ME undergraduate co-author Eric Wang) has won the best student paper award at the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) (May 20-24, Montreal) for his paper “Drift-free Roll and Pitch Estimation for High-acceleration Hopping.”  The…
May 29, 2019
Tianshi Wang and Jaijeet Roychowdhury win UCNC 2019 Best Paper Award
A paper co-authored by freshly minted alumnus Tianshi Wang (Ph.D. ’19, winner of the 2019 EECS David Sakrison Memorial Prize for “truly outstanding research”) and Prof. Jaijeet Roychowdhury has won Best Paper Award at the International Conference on Unconventional Computation and Natural Computation (UCNC) 2019.  The paper, titled “OIM: Oscillator-based…
May 28, 2019
Hany Farid’s take on the altered Nancy Pelosi video
CS Prof. Hany Farid was interviewed for an article in the Washington Post titled “Faked Pelosi videos, slowed to make her appear drunk, spread across social media.”  A video of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was slowed to about 75 percent of its original speed and altered to modify the pitch…
May 23, 2019
Moses Surumen plugs Kenya’s skills gap with peer to peer learning
Moses Surumen, who graduated with a degree in EECS this week, has been sharing his knowledge with peers in Kenya for the past two years, helping them develop the skills to solve challenges back home.  Surumen, who has 10 siblings, grew up in Kajiado, a Masai area south of Nairobi. …
May 22, 2019
Hany Farid and Alexei Efros team up with Facebook to improve accountability
EECS Profs. Hany Farid and Alexei Efros will be working with Facebook to help develop new methods to improve detection of fake content, fake news and misinformation campaigns. Facebook has launched $7.5 million partnership with three universities, including UC Berkeley, to create the technology.  Farid is a long-time crusader for…
May 22, 2019
Rikky Muller is building machines that heal
EE Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller is the subject of a Berkeley Engineering article titled “Machines that heal.”  She is using her expertise in integrated circuits to build tiny, implantable devices that are intelligent, safe and so minimally invasive that they can last over the course of a patient’s lifetime.  “I’m…
May 22, 2019
Edward Lee and Sanjit Seshia win Cyber-Physical Systems (TCCPS) awards
Two EECS professors have won awards from the IEEE Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems (TCCPS).  Edward Lee won the Technical Achievement Award, which recognizes significant contributions to the field sustained throughout the recipient’s career, ‘‘for pioneering and fundamental contributions to the design, modeling and simulation of cyber-physical systems.’’  The previous…
« Previous  Page
1
…
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions