URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/70
News Archive - Page 70 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 24, 2019
Jordan Edmunds named 2019 Hertz Fellow
EE graduate student Jordan Edmunds (advisor: Michel Maharbiz), has been named a 2019 fellow by the Fannie and John Hertz Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing groundbreaking applied science with real-world benefits for all humanity.   Edmunds, whose current work focuses on neural interfaces, has produced more than 120 instructional…
April 23, 2019
Stuart Russell wins Andrew Carnegie Fellowship
Prof. Stuart Russell has been elected as an Andrew Carnegie Fellow. Also called the “Brainy Award,” the Andrew Carnegie Fellowship awards recipients with a grant of up to $200,000 in order to “devote significant time to research, writing, and publishing in the humanities and social sciences — work that will…
April 23, 2019
Paper by Koushik Sen wins ACM SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award
The paper titled “CUTE: a concolic unit testing engine for C”, authored by Prof. Koushik Sen (EECS), Darko Marinov (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign), Gul Agha (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) has been chosen to receive an ACM SIGSOFT (Association for Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on Software Engineering)…
April 23, 2019
Caroline Lemieux and Daniel Fried named 2019 Google PhD Fellows
CS graduate students Caroline Lemieux (adviser: Koushik Sen) and Daniel Fried (adviser: Daniel Klein) have won 2019 Google PhD Fellowships.  The Google PhD Fellowship Program was created to recognize outstanding graduate students doing exceptional work in computer science and related research areas.  Fellowships are awarded to students who “represent the…
April 22, 2019
Mendel Rosenblum wins Inaugural ACM Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award
CS alumnus Mendel Rosenblum (MS ’89/PhD ’92) has been honored with the inaugural ACM Charles P. “Chuck” Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award.  Rosenblum, who is currently a professor at Stanford, is being recognized “for reinventing the virtual machine for the modern era and thereby revolutionizing datacenters and enabling modern cloud computing.”  …
April 20, 2019
UC Berkeley undergraduates launch soundproof karaoke pod startup
A team of three undergraduates, including EECS junior Aayush Tyagi, launched Oki Karaoke in September 2018 — a startup that aims to bring Asia’s soundproof karaoke pods to the United States. The startup is currently working to install its first booth, which will operate by charging customers by the minute,…
April 19, 2019
Professor Constance Chang-Hasnain wins UC Davis ECE Distinguished Alumni Award
The Electrical and Computer Engineering department (ECE) at UC Davis has awarded Prof. Constance Chang-Hasnain with the ECE Distinguished Alumni Award. The award recognizes outstanding alumni “whose professional and personal achievements bring special honor to the department.” In 2018, in addition to being elected as the Vice-President of Optical Society…
April 18, 2019
Claire Tomlin elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Professor Claire Tomlin (Ph.D. ‘98) has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The academy is one of the oldest learned societies in the United States and serves the nation as a champion of scholarship, civil dialogue and useful knowledge. Members are nominated and elected by peers,…
April 17, 2019
Nolan Pokpongkiat wins third place David L. Kirp Prize
Third-year Computer Science undergraduate Nolan Pokpongkiat is the third place winner of the KIDS FIRST: David L. Kirp Prize, funded by the U.C. Berkeley Institute for the Study of Societal Issues.  The prize recognizes “students who have developed innovative strategies to increase opportunities for children and youth, as well as…
April 17, 2019
EECS department mourns the loss of Jean Paul Jacob and Elwyn Berlekamp
The EECS department lost two beloved faculty emeriti this month:  Jean Paul Jacob on April 7 and Elwyn Berlekamp on April 9.  Jacob was born in Brazil and spent a number of years working in industry before attending Berkeley (MS ’65/PhD ’66, advisor: Elijah Polak).  He was a world expert…
« Previous  Page
1
…
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions