URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/95
News Archive - Page 95 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
March 7, 2018
Michael Jordan named Plenary Lecturer at the 2018 International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM)
Prof. Michael Jordan has been named a Plenary Lecturer at the 2018 International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM), which will take place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in August.  ICM is considered the world’s premier forum for presenting and discussing new mathematical discoveries.  Plenary speakers are invited from around the world…
March 7, 2018
Ashokavardhanan, Jung, and McConnell named KPCB Engineering Fellows
Undergraduate students Ganeshkumar Ashokavardhanan (EECS  + Business M.E.T.),  Naomi Jung (CS BA), and Louie McConnell (EECS + Business M.E.T.) have been selected to participate in the 2018 KPCB Engineering Fellows Program, named one of the top 5 internship programs by Vault.  Over the course of a summer, KPCB Engineering Fellows join…
March 5, 2018
EECS mourns the loss of Angela Waxman
Angela Waxman, the CS Graduate Student Services Staff Advisor, passed away unexpectedly on Saturday night from a stroke.  Angela joined the EECS department in July 2017, and made a positive impact on those lucky enough to have worked or interacted with her.  Her kindness, warmth and positive spirit will be greatly missed. Contact…
March 5, 2018
AI training may leak secrets to canny thieves
A paper released on arXiv last week by a team of researchers including Prof. Dawn Song and Ph.D. student Nicholas Carlini (B.A. CS/Math ’13), reveals just how vulnerable deep learning is to information leakage.  The researchers labelled the problem “unintended memorization” and explained it happens if miscreants can access to…
March 5, 2018
Shankar Raman named 2018 MIT MacVicar Fellow
Alumnus Shankar Raman (EE M.S. ’88), now a professor of literature at MIT, has been named a 2018 MacVicar Fellow.  The MIT MacVicar Faculty Fellows Program recognizes professors who are champions of teaching and advising, and who engage with students to advance the mission of the Institute.  After obtaining his…
March 5, 2018
How Flight Simulation Tech Can Help Turn Robots Into Surgeons
Robotics researchers from Berkeley’s AUTOLab, led by IEOR and EECS professor Ken Goldberg, have built a heaving robotic platform — mimicking the motion of a breathing, heart-beating human patient — to help develop algorithms that robotic surgical assistants can use to guide their cutting.  This research is the subject of…
March 5, 2018
Retraining the brain’s vision center to take action
Neuroscience researchers, including Prof. Jose Carmena, have demonstrated the astounding flexibility of the brain by training neurons that normally process input from the eyes to develop new skills, in this case, to control a computer-generated tone.  Carmena, the senior author of a paper about the development that appeared in the…
March 2, 2018
RISELab’s AI research wins $10M NSF award
The RISELab, led by Prof. Ion Stoica, has received an Expeditions in Computing award from the National Science Foundation (NSF), providing $10 million in funding over five years to enable game-changing advances in real-time decision making technologies.  The award is presented to research teams pursuing large-scale, far-reaching and potentially transformative…
February 28, 2018
Subjects natural, rational, and transcendental: the photos of Lotfi Zadeh
Prof. Lotfi Zadeh, who passed away in 2017, was an avid photographer who grew up in a multicultural environment, surrounded himself with a cosmopolitan crowd, and always kept his mind open to new ideas.   In the 1960s and 70s, he enjoyed capturing the people around him in a series of…
February 21, 2018
Ling-Qi Yan helps to improve computer rendering of animal fur
CS graduate student Ling-Qi Yan (advisors: Ravi Ramamoorthi/Ren Ng) and researchers at U.C. San Diego are the subject of an article in TechXplore titled “Scientists improve computer rendering of animal fur.”  He is part of a team that developed a method for dramatically improving the way computers simulate fur, and…
« Previous  Page
1
…
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions