URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/71
News Archive - Page 71 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 17, 2019
Meet Blue, the low-cost, human-friendly robot designed for AI
Meet Blue, a new low-cost, human-friendly robot conceived and built by a team of researchers led by CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel, postdoc Stephen McKinley, and grad student David Gealy. Blue was designed to use recent advances in AI and deep reinforcement learning to master intricate human tasks, all while remaining…
April 16, 2019
Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli wins Physical Design Lifetime Achievement Award
Professor Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli has been awarded the 2019 International Symposium on Physical Design Lifetime Achievement Award. The ISPD Lifetime Achievement Award is the highest distinction in the field of physical design automation and is given to individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the field over multiple decades. The purpose of the…
April 16, 2019
Largest, fastest array of microscopic ‘traffic cops’ for optical communications
Prof. Ming Wu, post-doc Kyungmok Kwon, and grad students Johannes Henriksson and Jianheng Luo (along with co-lead author Tae Joon Seok of the Gwangju Institute) have built a new photonic switch that can control the direction of light passing through optical fibers faster and more efficiently than ever.  The photonic…
April 15, 2019
EECS department honored with NCWIT Transformation (NEXT) Award for increasing women’s participation in computing
The L&S CS Major in the EECS Department has won the second place 2019 NCWIT Extension Services Transformation (NEXT) Award for Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing.  The team includes Director of Undergraduate Instruction Christopher Hunn, Director of Diversity Audrey Sillers, and CS Scholars Program Associate Director Charlene Duncan. The award comes with a prize of $50K…
April 15, 2019
Two papers selected as 2018 IEEE Micro Top Picks
Two papers by EECS faculty have been named 2018 IEEE Micro Top Picks by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Computer Architecture (SIGARCH).  The papers were “A Hardware Accelerator for Tracing Garbage Collection,” co-authored by Profs. Krste Asanović and John Kubiatowicz (along with Martin Maas), and…
April 15, 2019
4 EECS faculty and 3 alumni to participate in Fields Institute symposium celebrating work of Stephen Cook
CS Prof. Shafi Goldwasser, CS Profs. Emeriti Richard Karp,  Manuel Blum and Christos Papadimitriou, and alumni Michael Sipser (2016 CS Distinguished Alumnus, PhD ’80, advisor: Manuel Blum), Scott Aaronson (CS PhD ’04, advisor: Umesh Vazirani), and James Cook (CS PhD ’14, advisor: Satish Rao) will all be speaking at The…
April 9, 2019
Raluca Popa and Moritz Hardt win 2018 Okawa Research Grants
CS Assistant Professors Raluca Popa and Moritz Hardt have won 2018 Okawa Research Foundation Grants. Okawa Research Grants are bestowed for “studies and analyses in the fields of information and telecommunications.” Popa’s research interests are in secure collaborative learning. Hardt’s research interests are in machine learning in social dynamics. The…
April 4, 2019
Profs. Armando Fox, Michael Jordan, and David Patterson win IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE) Influential Paper Award
At the 2019  IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), the Influential Paper Award was won by the 2009 paper “Predicting Multiple Metrics for Queries: Better Decisions Enabled by Machine Learning” by Archana Ganapathi, Harumi A. Kuno, Umeshwar Dayal, Janet L. Wiener, Armando Fox, Michael I. Jordan, and David A.
March 22, 2019
A Salute to Early Women in STEM at UC Berkeley
In celebration of Women’s History Month, Sheila Humphreys, the EECS Emerita Director of Diversity, has published an essay in the EECS Newsletter titled “A Salute to Early Women in STEM at UC Berkeley.”  This essay is the first part of a series of writings about the history of diversity in…
March 22, 2019
Alexei Efros, Anca Dragan, Ken Goldberg, and Michael Jordan to participate in TechCrunch Sessions: Robotics + AI event
CS Profs. Alexei Efros, Ken Goldberg and Michael Jordan, and Assistant Prof. Anca Dragan, will be participating in the TechCrunch (TC) Sessions: Robotics + AI 2019 event on April 18 .  The day-long event includes “on-stage, live interviews and demos with the world’s leading technologists, founders and investors on robotics…
« Previous  Page
1
…
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions