URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs/page/3
EECS Archives - Page 3 of 21 - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
October 7, 2025
Berkeley Homecoming features conversation on shaping our AI future
Andy Konwinski, serial founder and Berkeley computer science Ph.D. alum, joined Jennifer Chayes, dean of the UC Berkeley College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), for a spirited discussion on shaping our AI future. More than 200 students and their parents, alumni and members of…
October 7, 2025
With these devices, the doctor is always in: Berkeley engineer Rikky Muller explains how implantable and wearable technologies are redefining patient care
UC Berkeley’s Rikky Muller (Ph.D.’13 EECS), associate professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences, can still recall her first glimpse into the world of neurotechnology. At a conference nearly two decades ago, she saw something that didn’t seem possible: chips recording neural signals from the brain, then using those signals to…
September 25, 2025
UC Berkeley receives AI for Math Fund grants for Vellum and LeanTutor projects
Two projects proposed by Berkeley EECS professors recently received funding from the AI for Math Fund to develop systems that help advance mathematical discovery and research. Last week, the AI for Math Fund announced a total of $18 million in grants for 29 projects, one of the…
September 23, 2025
UC Berkeley ranked #1 in data science and #2 in computer science by U.S. News
UC Berkeley’s undergraduate data science program retained its No. 1 spot in the 2026 U.S. News and World Report rankings released today. The university also held its No. 2 ranking in computer science at the undergraduate level. It shared that spot with Carnegie Mellon University and Stanford…
September 23, 2025
U.S. News ranks Berkeley’s undergrad engineering program No. 3 in the nation
UC Berkeley Engineering holds onto the No. 3 spot in U.S. News and World Report’s annual rankings of undergraduate engineering programs. U.S. News includes rankings for both computer engineering and computer science. Both are housed in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, which is shared with the College of…
September 19, 2025
Five students honored as Siebel Scholars
Five UC Berkeley students were honored as Siebel Scholars Foundation’s class of 2026. The graduate students — all from computer science — join more than 1,900 distinguished honorees advancing research in the fields of bioengineering, computer science, energy science and business.
September 12, 2025
UC Berkeley EECS announces the Vigyan Singhal Fund for Chip Design Education
UC Berkeley EECS is proud to announce the creation of the Vigyan Singhal Fund for Chip Design Education, established through the generosity of alumnus Vigyan Singhal (M.S. ‘94, Ph.D. ‘95 EECS), now Vice President of Hardware Engineering at NVIDIA. The fund will provide sustained support for instruction and the educational…
August 28, 2025
Stuart Russell named to TIME100 AI 2025
EECS Professor Stuart Russell has been named to TIME100 AI 2025 list. A globally recognized leader in artificial intelligence, Russell is celebrated for his groundbreaking research and his role as a prominent voice in the field of AI safety.
August 27, 2025
EECS researchers develop a scalable quantum platform for high-speed communications
A team of researchers from UC Berkeley’s Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory’s Materials Sciences Division has made a significant leap toward building compact and scalable quantum networks. The work, published in Optica, details a new chip-based system that can control multiple quantum…
August 13, 2025
Serina Chang wins ACM KDD Dissertation Award
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, who joined UC Berkeley EECS in July, has been honored with the ACM Special Interest Group on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD) Dissertation Award for her thesis, “Computational Methods for Human Networks and High-Stakes Decisions.” Chang’s work sits at the intersection of AI…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions