URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/102
News Archive - Page 102 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 17, 2017
Philly honors Ruzena Bajcsy
The life and contributions of CS Prof. Ruzena Bajcsy are profiled in a Philadelphia Inquirer article titled “Philly honors experts in robotics, genetics, evolution.”  Bajcsy, who helped launch the field of computer vision, is being presented with a John Scott Award in science and medicine at the American Philosophical Society this…
November 16, 2017
Sanjay Mehrotra named Vice Chair of SIA
Alumnus Sanjay Mehrotra (EECS B.S. ’78/M.S. ’80) has been named the 2018 Vice Chair of the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA).  The SIA is a trade association and lobbying group positioned as “the voice of the U.S. semiconductor industry.”  Mehrotra, who is currently CEO of Micron, led the growth of SanDisk…
November 15, 2017
EECS-affiliated team break record for fastest deep learning training
Grad student Yang You, Prof. James Demmel and Prof. Kurt Keutzer, along with Prof. Cho-Jui Hsieh of UC Davis and Dr. Zhao Zhang of the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC), have created, in collaboration with researchers at NVIDIA, a new algorithm which enables them to harness the power of supercomputers…
November 15, 2017
Andreas Cangellaris named UI provost
EE alumnus Andreas Cangellaris (Ph.D. ’85) will be the next provost of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the first person to hold the job on a permanent basis in more than two years.  Cangellaris joined the UI engineering faculty in 1997 and has been Dean of the College of Engineering…
November 14, 2017
Diane Greene shares insight at Dreamforce conference
CS alumna Diane Greene (M.S. ’88) sat down with Ginni Rometty and Marc Benioff at the Dreamforce conference last week to talk about women leaders in tech.  Greene, who is currently the CEO of Google Cloud, started out designing offshore oil structures and systems before becoming a software engineer.  She…
November 14, 2017
Slaughterbots video shows why we should ban lethal autonomous weapons
Prof. Stuart Russell teamed up with Autonomousweapons.org to create a provocative video called Slaughterbots, which shows what can go wrong when autonomous weapons are designed to target humans.  “This short film is more than just speculation” Russell says. “It shows the results of integrating and miniaturizing…
November 14, 2017
New Master of Cybersecurity degree now accepting applications
The School of Information (I School) is now accepting applications for its new, online Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) program, also known as cybersecurity@berkeley.  MICS is an accredited program designed to train students with professional experience for a career in cybersecurity. Delivered online, MICS provides the technical skills and…
November 13, 2017
Wu-Fu Chen elected to Crown Bioscience Board of Directors
CS alumnus Wu-Fu Chen (Ph.D. ’77) has been elected to the Board of Directors of Crown Bioscience Inc., a global drug discovery and development company.  Chen is the Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Acorn Campus Ventures and Partner Emeritus at Mobility Ventures LLC.  He started more than a dozen companies,…
November 13, 2017
UC Berkeley ranks #3 in 2017 U.S. and global CSRankings
UC Berkeley is ranked #3 overall in the U.S. and global computer science rankings (CSRankings) for 2017.  CSRankings is designed as a more meaningful and transparent alternative to the US News and World Report computer science ranking system–which is entirely reputation-based and relies on surveys sent to department heads and directors of…
November 9, 2017
Gary May confirmed as UC Davis chancellor
The Investiture of EECS alumnus Gary May (M.S. ’88 and Ph.D. ’92) as the seventh chancellor of UC Davis took place on Oct. 27 in the Mondavi Center, the first event in UC Davis’ annual Homecoming weekend.  May was presented with the Chancellor’s Medal by UC President Janet Napolitano, officially…
« Previous  Page
1
…
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions