URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/106
News Archive - Page 106 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 6, 2017
NIH bestows $13.4 million grant to build NexGen 7T fMRI brain scanner
A team of U.C. Berkeley researchers including Associate Prof. Chunlei Liu, Prof. Ana Arias, and Associate Prof. Michael Lustig, has been awarded a $13.43 million grant by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as part of the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies® (BRAIN) Initiative.  The team will use the money…
October 5, 2017
Marie desJardins wins  A. Richard Newton Educator ABIE Award
CS alumna Marie desJardins (Ph.D. ’92 adviser: Stuart Russell) has won the 2017 A. Richard Newton Educator ABIE Award. The award, named in honor of the late EE Prof. Richard Newton and presented annually at the Grace Hopper Celebration,  recognizes educators who develop innovative teaching practices and approaches that attract girls…
October 4, 2017
Alex Stamos hunts down Russian political ads on Facebook
EECS alumnus and security expert Alex Stamos (B.S. ’01) is profiled in an article in Recode about his role as Facebook’s Chief Security Officer.  He is currently leading their internal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election and co-authored a paper explaining how Russia carried out its…
October 2, 2017
Mark Liu named Chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC)
Alumnus Mark Liu (EE M.S. ’80/Ph.D. ’83) has been named Chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC), the world’s biggest foundry chipmaker.  He is succeeding Morris Chang, who is retiring.  Chang, known as the “father of Taiwan’s chip industry,’ built TSMC (an Apple Inc. supplier) into a business worth $185…
October 2, 2017
Jimmy Liu and Zuhayeer Musa build the future
CS majors Jimmy Liu and Zuhayeer Musa are featured in a Berkeley News article titled “In undergrad startup class, students learn to build the future.”  Liu and Musa co-founded a startup called Bash while still in high school.  When they came to Cal, they partnered with CS Prof. Scott…
October 2, 2017
The education of Brett the robot
CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel, graduate student Chelsea Finn, and Brett the robot are featured in a Wired article titled “The Education of Brett the Robot” which delves into some of the nuts and bolts of machine learning.  Brett (short for Berkeley Robot for the Elimination of Tedious Tasks) is…
September 29, 2017
President Aliyev attends farewell ceremony for Lotfi Zadeh
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev attended a farewell ceremony for Prof. Emeritus Lotfi Zadeh, held at the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences (ANAS) in Baku.  The ceremony was attended by many prominent Azerbaijani state and government officials, scientists, and public figures.  Education Minister Mikayil Jabbarov said that his last wish was…
September 29, 2017
Saloni Shah and Dan Garcia talk about challenges for women in CS
Senior CS major Saloni Shah and Teaching Prof. Dan Garcia are featured in a TechRepublic cover story titled “The state of women in computer science: An investigative report.”   They discuss some of the challenges of attracting and retaining women students in computer science, and some of the efforts that…
September 29, 2017
Dust in the Machine
Chancellor’s Professor of Electrical Engineering and Neuroscience Jose Carmena, and Prof. Michel Maharbiz, are the subjects of a California Magazine article titled “Dust in the Machine,” about brain-machine interface (BMI) research.  In 2013, Carmena, Maharbiz, then-graduate student Dongjin Seo (Ph.D. ’16), Prof. Jan Rabaey, and Prof. Elad Alon published a…
September 28, 2017
Shahin Farshchi on making the ‘impossible’ possible through feats of engineering
EECS alumnus Shahin Farshchi (B.S. ’02) is the subject of one of a series of Iranian Americans’ Contributions Project (IACP) interviews that explore the personal and professional backgrounds of prominent Iranian-Americans who have made seminal contributions to their fields. Farshchi is currently a Partner at Lux Capital Management where he has…
« Previous  Page
1
…
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions