URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/28
Research Archives - Page 28 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
April 19, 2021
Rediet Abebe co-chairing ACM Conference on Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, & Optimization
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe is co-chairing the inaugural ACM Conference on Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, and Optimization (EAAMO ’21) in October 2021.  This conference will highlight work where techniques from algorithms, optimization, and mechanism design, along with insights from other disciplines, can help improve equity and…
April 15, 2021
Andreea Bobu named 2021 Apple Scholar in AI/ML
EECS graduate student Andreea Bobu (advisor: Anca Dragan) has been named a 2021 Apple Scholar in AI and Machine Learning (AI/ML).  The scholarship was created by Apple to “celebrate the contributions of students pursuing cutting-edge fundamental and applied machine learning research worldwide.”  Bobu’s research interests lie at the intersection of…
April 6, 2021
Wenshuo Guo wins 2021 Google PhD Fellowship
EECS graduate student Wenshuo Guo (advisor: Michael I. Jordan) has won a 2021 Google PhD Fellowship in Algorithms, Optimization and Markets.  This award acknowledges and supports exemplary PhD students in computer science and related fields who are making contributions to their areas of specialty.   Guo studies robustness guarantees in algorithms…
April 6, 2021
Michael Jordan explains why today’s AI systems aren’t actually intelligent
CS Prof. Michael I. Jordan is the subject of an IEEE Spectrum article which describes his life, research, and philosophy.  A computer science pioneer, Jordan blended CS, statistics, and applied mathematics, to help transform unsupervised machine learning into a powerful algorithmic tool for solving problems in fields like natural language…
April 5, 2021
Rediet Abebe tackles inequality through algorithms
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe is the subject of a profile in Quanta Magazine which describes how she uses the tools of theoretical computer science to understand pressing social problems — and try to fix them.   Abebe, who is from Ethiopia, earned a B.A. in mathematics from Harvard, attended a…
April 1, 2021
Joe Hellerstein named Datanami 2021 Person to Watch
CS Prof. Joseph Hellerstein has been named a Datanami 2021 Person to Watch.  Hellerstein is the chief strategy officer and one of the co-founders  a Trifacta, a company which markets data preparation and interaction technology based on Data Wrangler, a data transformation and discovery tool he developed in the RISELab…
March 31, 2021
Nir Yosef creates algorithm to integrate single-cell data from multiple sources
CS Associate Prof. Nir Yosef has joined with colleagues in Bioengineering to write an algorithm called totalVI that uses deep learning to integrate gene and protein data about single cells, and which will allow collaborative experiments to be more accurate and efficient.   TotalVI will help to manage, analyze, and distribute gene…
March 10, 2021
Data Limits Could Vanish With New Optical Antennas and “Rings of Light”
EECS Prof. Boubacar Kanté and his team have found a new way to harness properties of light waves that can radically increase the amount of data they carry. They demonstrated the emission of discrete twisting laser beams from antennas made up of concentric rings roughly equal to the diameter of…
March 8, 2021
EECS celebrates International Women’s History Month
In an effort to facilitate the conversation about diversity and inclusion in the field of EECS, undergraduate students Neha Hudait and Prachi Deo have put together a web page and calendar of events for March 2021 and beyond.  The web page will feature a series of profiles, the…
March 1, 2021
Rediet Abebe to participate in NSF/CEME Decentralization 2021
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe will be moderating a problem solving session at the 2021 NSF/CEME Decentralization Conference.  The theme of this year’s conference is “Mechanism Design for Vulnerable Populations.” Abebe’s session will be designed to help academics understand the challenges facing refugees and practitioners working on refugee issues globally,…
« Previous  Page
1
…
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions