URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/119
News Archive - Page 119 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
March 22, 2017
Baiyu Chen awarded top prize at Infrastructure Vision 2050 Challenge
CS graduate student Baiyu Chen (advisor: Alexei Efros) and Anthony Barrs were awarded top prize and $50,000 for their design at the Infrastructure Vision 2050 Challenge.  Their idea, profiled in an article for Fortune, was to construct a “Hyperlane,” or a single platform the size…
March 22, 2017
Tomás Vega rises to a disability challenge
Tomás Vega, a senior computer science and cognitive science major, was part of a team that participated in the first collegiate Tikkun Olam Makers (TOM) event and which was profiled in a Jewish News article titled “Cal students pull a marathon to engineer disability solutions.”  His team, led by…
March 20, 2017
Eli Yablonovitch to receive IEEE William R. Cherry Award
Prof. Eli Yablonovitch has been awarded the IEEE William R. Cherry Award, which is the highest IEEE Award for solar cells. This award recognizes an individual engineer or scientist who has devoted a part of their professional life to the advancement of the science and technology of…
March 20, 2017
Raghav Chandra’s UrbanClap dominates India’s on-demand services ecosystem
Alumnus Raghav Chandra (EECS B.S. ’11) and his second start-up, UrbanClap, are the subject of a Live Mint article describing the formation and rise of the most funded start-up in the still nascent hyperlocal segment of the on-demand services sector in India.  UrbanClap, which aggregates 107 local services…
March 16, 2017
Jan Rabaey to receive two honorary doctorates
Prof. Jan Rabaey will be receiving two honorary doctorates. The first one is for scientific merit from the University of Antwerp in Belgium on March 30, 2017.  The second one will follow on May 20 from the Tampere University of Technology. The title of Honorary Doctor is the highest…
March 15, 2017
Dan Garcia’s research group GameCrafters featured in PBS Newshour article
Prof. Dan Garcia was interviewed in a PBS Newshour article titled “This Pi Day, use math to beat your friends at classic toy games”. To celebrate Pi Day, mathematicians and physicists explored three classic toys, hula hoops, yo-yo’s and Connect Four on ways to be the most successful…
March 15, 2017
Student startup culture is in The House
A number of EECS alumni and faculty have been invited to guest lecture for a DeCal course called “Build the Future” (CS 198), designed in collaboration with startup institute The House, to get undergraduate students engaged with the Berkeley entrepreneurial ecosystem and to use their time on campus…
March 15, 2017
Björn Hartmann is countering extremism with technology
“Designing Technology to Counter Violent Extremism,” a course co-taught by CS Associate Prof. Björn Hartmann at the Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation, is designed to develop technology-based solutions to ideologically motivated violence in the United States.  In the class, students seek to understand the roots of violent extremism and…
March 15, 2017
Jose Carmena wants to use brain implants to tune the mind
EE Prof.  and co-director of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses Jose Carmena participated in a discussion with the Kavli Foundation about technologies that might be used to treat mental illness or enhance memory. Prof. Carmena, who has co-developed brain-machine interfaces and implantable microsensors, says “we have learned a…
March 15, 2017
Startup Trifacta gives customers an intuitive, agile new way of working with data
Trifacta, a data wrangling startup co-founded by Prof. Joe Hellerstein (also company CSO and CS alumnus–M.S. ’92), is one of the companies profiled by Computer Weekly in an article titled “Silicon Valley startups aim to make big data capture and prep slicker.”  Customers of Trifacta, which specializes in…
« Previous  Page
1
…
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions