URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/artificial-intelligence-ai
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Artificial Intelligence (AI)
February 9, 2026
AI research deluge: why one conference is asking authors to rank their own papers
Emma Pierson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, agrees that self-rankings are an “exciting possibility”. “You know which papers are your ‘baby’, which papers you really love,” she says. “I think the author’s own self-ranking would be one valuable source of input if you…
February 2, 2026
TechCrunch: A peek inside Physical Intelligence, the startup building Silicon Valley’s buzziest robot brains
“Think of it like ChatGPT, but for robots,” Sergey Levine tells me, gesturing toward the motorized ballet unfolding across the room.
January 20, 2026
11 things UC Berkeley AI experts are watching for in 2026
How will AI disrupt the labor market? What will deepfake videos mean for our understanding of truth? Are we in a bubble, and if so, will the bubble burst?
December 15, 2025
The Economist: The next version of the web will be built for machines, not humans
Dawn Song, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, says marketers may need to pitch not to people, but to “agent attention”.
December 8, 2025
Serina Chang named in Forbes 30 Under 30
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, a rising star in AI and computational health research, has been named to Forbes’ 30 Under 30 in the healthcare category, a recognition reserved for individuals under 30 who are making significant strides in health, technology, and social impact.
November 12, 2025
UC Berkeley’s introductory machine learning course gets optimized for the AI age
As artificial intelligence technology continues advancing at a breakneck pace, faculty at UC Berkeley are optimizing computer science courses to keep undergraduate students informed and prepared for changing careers in the tech industry and beyond.
October 21, 2025
EECS students drive AI innovation as Amazon PhD Fellows
Today, Amazon announced its new AI PhD Fellowship program, offering two years of funding to over 100 PhD students across nine universities. Ten of these inaugural fellowships have been awarded to graduate students from UC Berkeley EECS’ Sky Computing Lab, supporting cutting-edge research in core AI disciplines like machine…
August 13, 2025
Serina Chang wins ACM KDD Dissertation Award
CS Assistant Professor Serina Chang, who joined UC Berkeley EECS in July, has been honored with the ACM Special Interest Group on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD) Dissertation Award for her thesis, “Computational Methods for Human Networks and High-Stakes Decisions.” Chang’s work sits at the intersection of AI…
August 11, 2025
Forbes: Why This Billionaire Berkeley Professor Won’t Leave The Classroom
“This computer science professor became a billionaire launching four startups out of his privately-funded research lab, including unicorns Databricks and Anyscale. But it’s never been just about business.”
July 31, 2025
Berkeley computer science researchers propose evidence-based AI policy recommendations
Jennifer Chayes, Ion Stoica, Dawn Song, and Emma Pierson are co-authors on the article “Advancing science- and evidence-based AI policy” by Rishi Bommasani et al, published by the journal Science on July 31. The article proposes policy mechanisms to address the opportunities and challenges of “increasingly powerful AI.”…
1
2
3
4
5
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions