URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/66
News Archive - Page 66 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
July 10, 2019
Aditya Parameswaran wins VLDB Early Career Award
Prof. Aditya Parameswaran wins the Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) Early Career Award, which recognizes a researcher who has demonstrated research impact through a specific technical contribution of high significance since completing the Ph.D. The VLDB Endowment is a non-profit organization incorporated in the United States for the sole purpose of promoting…
July 8, 2019
Anca Dragan and Alvin Cheung win Presidential Early Career awards for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE)
Profs. Anca Dragan and Alvin Cheung have been awarded the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), which is the highest honor bestowed by the U.S. government to scientists and engineers in the early stages of their careers. Established in 1996, the PECASE acknowledges the contributions scientists and…
July 5, 2019
Michael Jordan on the goals and remedies for AI
CS Prof. Michael Jordan has written a commentary in the Harvard Data Science Review (HDSR) titled “Dr. AI or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Economics” (a play on the title of the film Dr. Strangelove).  In it, he  argues that instead of trying to put “‘thought’ into…
July 5, 2019
Robert J. Wood’s RoboBee X-Wing flies solo
An untethered bee robot co-created by EE alumnus Robert J. Wood (PhD ’04, advisor: Ron Fearing) graces the cover the of the June 2019 issue of Nature magazine and is the subject of a Wired article titled “What Could Possibly Be Cooler Than RoboBee? RoboBee X-Wing.”  Wood, now a professor…
July 1, 2019
New RIOS Lab to expand RISC open-source ecosystem
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson, his former graduate student Zhangxi Tan (PhD ’13), and Lin Zhang of the Tsinghua-UC Berkeley Shenzhen Institute (TBSI), have been chosen to co-direct the new RISC-V International Open Source (RIOS) Laboratory, an non-profit research lab launched by the TBSI.  RIOS aims to expand and elevate…
July 1, 2019
Lee Felsenstein and the first public computerized bulletin board system
The Community Memory Project, a 1970’s era counterculture experiment co-founded by EECS alumnus Lee Felsenstein (B.S. ’72), is the subject of an article in California Magazine titled “’We’re Using a Computer’: Was Social Media Invented in Berkeley?”  Members of the public were invited  to interface with a carboard box “terminal”…
July 1, 2019
Shruti Agarwal and Hany Farid use facial quirks to unmask ‘deepfakes’
CS graduate student Shruti Agarwal and her thesis advisor Prof. Hany Farid have created a new weapon in the war against “deepfakes,” the hyper-realistic AI-generated videos of people appearing to say and do things they never actually said or did.  The new forensic technique, which uses the subtle characteristics of…
July 1, 2019
Alexei Efros helps build tool to detect facial manipulation in Adobe PhotoShop
CS Prof. Alexei “Alyosha” Efros has teamed up with student researcher Sheng-Yu Wang and postdoc Andrew Owens, as well as Adobe researchers Richard Zhang and Oliver Wang, to develop a method for detecting and reversing edits to images made using Adobe Photoshop’s Face Aware Liquify feature–a popular tool for adjusting…
June 29, 2019
Michael Lieberman wins 2020 IEEE Marie Sklodowska-Curie Award
EE Prof. Michael Lieberman has won the 2020 IEEE Marie Sklodowska-Curie Award for outstanding contributions to the field of nuclear and plasma sciences and engineering.  This IEEE-level Technical Field Award is the highest honor administered by the Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society.  Lieberman was cited “For groundbreaking research and sustained…
June 25, 2019
Gitanjali Swamy testifies in support of Massachsetts anti-discrimination bill
EECS alumna Gitanjali Swamy (Ph.D. ’97) testified in defense of a proposed bill (S939) she helped to draft which calls for sexual harassment and discrimination laws in Massachusetts to apply not only to employers but to investors and financiers as well–particularly private investors such as venture capitalists.  The purpose of…
« Previous  Page
1
…
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions