URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/37
News Archive - Page 37 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
October 11, 2021
Tsu-Jae King Liu wins 2021 IEEE EDS Education Award
EECS Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu has been selected to receive the…
October 10, 2021
Matthew Anderson wins 2021-22 Google-CMD-IT LEAP Fellowship Award
EECS Ph.D. student Matthew Anderson (advisors: Jan Rabaey and Ali Niknejad) has won the …
October 4, 2021
Yang You wins IEEE CS TCHPC Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel) has won the IEEE Computer Society Technical Consortium on High Performance Computing (TCHPC) Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing.  The focus of his research is efficient deep learning on distributed systems. He is known for developing the industry benchmark…
October 1, 2021
Sumit Gulwani wins Max Planck-Humboldt Medal
Sumit Gulwani (Ph.D. ’05, advisor: George Necula), now a Partner Research Manager at Microsoft Research in Redmond, Washington, has been selected to receive the 2021 Max Planck-Humboldt Medal for “automatic programming and computational education.”  Gulwani, who won the ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation award and the MSR Ph.d. Fellowship while at Berkeley,…
September 30, 2021
Kathy Yelick named UC Berkeley’s new vice chancellor for research
CS Prof. Katherine Yelick has been named UC Berkeley’s next vice chancellor for research.  She will take over the role from EECS Prof. Randy Katz on January 1, 2022.  Yelick is an expert in the field of parallel computing and currently serves as executive associate dean in the Division of…
September 24, 2021
Sagnik Bhattacharya and Jay Shenoy named 2022 Siebel Scholars
Graduate students Sagnik Bhattacharya (B.A. CS and Statistics ’21) and Jay Shenoy (B.A. CS ’21) are recipients of the 2022 Siebel Scholars award.  The Siebel Scholars program annually recognizes “exceptional students from the world’s leading graduate schools of business, computer science, and bioengineering.”  Bhattacharya, a 5th Year Masters student and…
September 17, 2021
“The Tale of a Success” with Ali Ghodsi
CS Prof. Ali Ghodsi will be the inaugural speaker for “The Tale of a Success” entrepreneurship series, hosted by the Iranian Students of California (ISC) in collaboration with the Berkeley Iranian Students Association in America (ISAA).  Ghodsi is a co-founder and the CEO of enterprise software company Databricks, a start-up…
September 7, 2021
Boubacar Kanté publishes paper introducing additional control knob for optical phase engineering
EECS Associate Prof. Boubacar Kanté is among the authors of a paper published in the journal Science titled “Plasmonic topological metasurface by encircling an exceptional point.”  The paper introduces “an additional degree of freedom to address optical phase engineering by exploiting the topological features of non-Hermitian matrices operating near [the]…
September 7, 2021
EPIC Lab receives $2M NSF grant to build tools for criminal justice big datasets
CS Prof. Joseph Hellerstein, and Assistant Profs. Aditya Parmeswaran and Sarah Chasins, are among the principal investigators of a new lab that has just received a $2M grant from the National Science Foundation to make big datasets used by the criminal justice system more accessible to non-technical researchers.  The Effective…
August 29, 2021
Hani Gomez, Ph.D.: Computing Pedagogy at the Nexus of Technology and Social Justice
EECS alumna Hani Gomez (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: Kris Pister) is the subject of a Berkeley Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) profile titled “Hani Gomez, Ph.D.: Computing Pedagogy at the Nexus of Technology and Social Justice.”  Gomez was born in Bolivia and earned her B.S. in EE at the University…
« Previous  Page
1
…
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions