URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/98
News Archive - Page 98 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
January 19, 2018
AI@The House built to support AI-related startups
Profs. Dawn Song, Ion Stoica, Kurt Keutzer, Michael Jordan, Pieter Abbeel, and Trevor Darrell have teamed up with EECS alumnus Cameron Baradar (B.S. ’15) and startup institute The House to run a new “global center-of-gravity of AI activity” called AI@The House. The new program will offer technical guidance, mentorship, free…
January 16, 2018
Sayeef Salahuddin named Associate Director of new $26M computer collaboration
EE Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin will serve as associate director of a new, $26 million research center called Applications and Systems-driven Center for Energy-Efficient integrated Nano Technologies (ASCENT), which will focus on conducting research that aims to increase the performance, efficiency and capabilities of future computing systems for both commercial and defense…
January 16, 2018
Prasad Raghavendra wins inaugural NAS Michael and Sheila Held Prize
CS Associate Prof. Prasad Raghavendra has won the inaugural Michael and Sheila Held Prize.  The award, sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), honors  outstanding, innovative, creative, and influential research in the areas of combinatorial and discrete optimization, or related parts of computer science, such as the design and…
January 12, 2018
Tips that Work!: advice from award-winning STEM mentor Sheila Humphreys
EECS Emerita Director of Diversity, Sheila Humphreys, is participating in a National Science Foundation (NSF) webinar titled “Tips that Work!: Advice from Award-Winning STEM Mentors” on Monday, Jan. 22 at 12:30 pm PST.  Humphreys, who was awarded the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM) in 2012, will…
January 12, 2018
GEESE:  A new cross-disciplinary student initiative to reflect on issues of society & technology
A new initiative, Graduates for Engaged and Extended Scholarship around Computing & Engineering (GEESE), aims to address growing concerns about the rapid advancement and integration of technologies in the global arena by building a coalition of engineers and social science scholars across campus to engage in issues vital to society…
January 10, 2018
Bob Dahlberg appointed Vice President of Strategic Partnerships & Business Development of AutoGrid
EECS alumnus Bob Dahlberg (B.S., Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu) has been appointed AutoGrid’s new Vice President of Strategic Partnerships & Business Development.  AutoGrid is a leader in flexibility management software.  Dahlberg will spearhead efforts to build a multi-channel partner network and develop new business opportunities with partners in energy…
January 10, 2018
Wei-Tek Tsai named to the Advisory Board of ThreeD Capital
EECS alumnus Wei-Tek Tsai (M.S.’82/Ph.D. ’85) has been added to the Advisory Board of ThreeD Capital, a Canadian–based venture capital firm focused on investments in “promising, early stage companies with disruptive capabilities.”  Tsai served as Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University…
January 10, 2018
Neil Warren elevated to Principal Attorney at Fish & Richardson
Alumnus Neil Warren (B.S. ’07), a member of both Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu, has been elevated to Principal Attorney at Fish & Richardson, a top patent litigation firm.  Warren received his J.D. from the U.C. Berkeley School of Law in ’10 and focuses his practice on both…
January 2, 2018
Stuart Russell and all things “Slaughterbot”
CS Prof. Stuart Russell is featured in an interview by the “Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists” titled “As much death as you want”: UC Berkeley’s Stuart Russell on “Slaughterbots.”  Russell discusses the genesis of the hit YouTube video, the technology that goes into lethal autonomous weapons, and some of…
December 20, 2017
Ben Recht wins NIPS Test of Time Award
Prof. Ben Recht has won the Neural Information Processing System (NIPS) 2017 Test of Time Award for a paper he co-wrote with Ali Rahimi in 2007 titled “Random Features for Large-Scale Kernel Machines.”   Deep learning, which involves stacking many neural networks on top of one another to learn the…
« Previous  Page
1
…
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions