URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/77
News Archive - Page 77 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
December 5, 2018
Sanjay Mehrotra elected Chair of SIA
Alumnus Sanjay Mehrotra (EECS B.S. ’78/M.S. ’80) has been elected Chair of the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA).  The SIA is a trade association and lobbying group that represents “U.S. leadership in semiconductor manufacturing, design, and research.”  Mehrotra, who is currently President and CEO of Micron, led the growth of SanDisk…
December 5, 2018
Krste Asanović and Peter Bartlett named ACM Fellows
CS Profs. Krste Asanović and Peter Bartlett have been named 2018 Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM).  ACM Fellows are composed of an elite group that represents less than 1% of the Association’s global membership.  Asanović was named “For contributions to computer architecture, including the open RISC-V instruction…
December 4, 2018
Stuart Russell wins AAAI Feigenbaum Prize
CS Prof. Stuart Russell has the won the 2019 Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI )Feigenbaum Prize.  Named for AI pioneer Edward Feigenbaum, the prize is awarded biennially “to recognize and encourage outstanding Artificial Intelligence research advances that are made by using experimental methods of computer science.”  Russell…
November 30, 2018
Q&A with Raluca Ada Popa
CS Assistant Prof. Raluca Ada Popa is interviewed by TechTarget for an article titled “The future of data security threats and protection in the enterprise.”  Popa is the co-founder of the RISElab as well as co-founder and CTO of PreVeil, a security startup providing enterprise end-to-end encryption for email and…
November 30, 2018
Don Pederson: Creator of SPICE
Berkeley Engineering has profiled EECS Prof. Emeritus Donald Pederson (1925-2005) for it’s web series celebrating Berkeley’s 150th anniversary.  Pederson created an integrated circuit computer simulation program called SPICE (Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis), one of the first open-source computer programs.  It allowed computer engineers to analyze and design complex electronic…
November 30, 2018
David Tse wins IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal
EE Adjunct Prof. David Tse has won the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal,  awarded “for exceptional contributions to information sciences, systems, and technology.”  Tse, who is currently a professor at Stanford, won “for seminal contributions to wireless network information theory and wireless network systems.”
November 29, 2018
Theresa Meng wins IEEE Alexander Graham Bell Medal
2010 EECS distinguished alumna Theresa Huai-Ying Meng (M.S. ’85/Ph.D. ’88) has won the 2019 IEEE Alexander Graham Bell Medal.  The award is presented to an individual or team for “exceptional contributions to communications and networking sciences and engineering.”  Meng, who is a Professor Emerita at Stanford University and founder of Atheros…
November 28, 2018
Elad Alon, Sayeef Salahuddin and Dawn Song elected IEEE Fellows class of 2019
Profs. Elad Alon, Sayeef Salahuddin and Dawn Song have been elected to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellows class of 2019.  An IEEE Fellowship is a distinction reserved for select IEEE members whose extraordinary accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of interest are deemed fitting of this…
November 27, 2018
Katherine Yelick elected AAAS fellow
EE Prof. Katherine Yelick, who is also the Associate Laboratory Director (ALD) for Computing Sciences at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, has been elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the nation’s largest scientific organization.  AAAS fellows are members “whose efforts on behalf of the advancement…
November 21, 2018
IIT establishes Soumitra Dutta Chair in Artificial Intelligence
The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) has established “The Soumitra Dutta Chair in Artificial Intelligence,” named for CS alumnus Soumitra Dutta (M.S. ’87/Ph.D. ’90 adviser: Lotfi Zadeh), “to promote excellence and leadership in teaching, research, and development in the field of artificial intelligence and to facilitate wider and deeper interaction…
« Previous  Page
1
…
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions