URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/99
News Archive - Page 99 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
December 19, 2017
Four EECS undergraduate researchers recognized by CRA
All four EECS students nominated for this year’s Computing Research Association (CRA) Undergraduate Researcher Award were recognized by the selection committee.  Senior CS/Math major Garrett Thomas (nominated by Pieter Abbeel) and EECS junior Peter Manohar (nominated by Alessandro Chiesa) were named as finalists.  Senior CS major Siqi Liu (nominated by…
December 15, 2017
Ming Lin Named Chair of UMD Department of Computer Science
EECS alumna Ming C. Lin (B.S./M.S./Ph.D. ’86-’93) has been named Chair of the Department of Computer Science at the University of Maryland (UMD).  Lin,  a noted educator and expert in virtual reality, computer graphics and robotics, will assume the role of Elizabeth Stevinson Iribe Chair of Computer Science with a…
December 15, 2017
Claire Tomlin and Kris Pister win Berkeley Outstanding Advising Faculty Awards
EE Profs. Claire Tomlin and Kristofer Pister have won Outstanding Advising Faculty Awards from Berkeley Advising Matters.  These awards are presented to administrators, directors, managers, faculty advisors or deans who are making a significant positive impact on the students and programs they support.  The selection criteria includes “advising excellence and…
December 14, 2017
Daniel Grubb and Ruocheng Wang win EE140/240A Keysight design competition
Daniel Grubb (EE140) and Ruocheng Wang (EE240A) have won an Analog Integrated Circuits I class design competition sponsored by Keysight technologies. The students designed low-power and high-speed LCD display drivers for a smartwatch display for the classes taught by Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller. Competition finalists gave presentations to a panel…
December 13, 2017
Harold Pimentel selected as HHMI Hanna H. Gray Fellow
CS alumnus Harold Pimentel (Ph.D. ’16, advisor: Lior Pachter), now a postdoctoral researcher at Stanford, has been chosen as a Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) Hanna H. Gray Fellow.  The goal of the fellows program is to “recruit and retain individuals who are from gender, racial, ethnic, and other groups…
December 13, 2017
Stuart Russell’s Slaughterbots video gains political traction
In response to the video Slaughterbots, created by Prof. Stuart Russell and Autonomousweapons.org,  San Mateo County Supervisor David Canepa has introduced a resolution to ban autonomous weapons.  If the resolution is adopted, San Mateo County would be the first in the United States to urge Congress and the United Nations…
December 13, 2017
Murat Arcak and Sam Coogan win the 2017 IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems Outstanding Paper Award
Prof. Murat Arcak, alumnus Samuel Coogan (M.S. ’12/Ph.D. ’15), and their co-authors on the paper titled “Traffic network control from temporal logic specifications,” have won the 2017 IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems Outstanding Paper Award.  The award is presented annually by the IEEE Control Systems Society to recognize…
December 13, 2017
EECS Departmental Advising staff win 2017 Excellence in Advising Team Award
EECS Center for Student Affairs (CSA) undergraduate advisers Cindy Conners, Charlene Duncan, Carol Marshall, Andrea Mejia Valencia, Nicole McIntyre, Lydia Raya, Michael-David Sasson, and Lily Zhang, have won the UC Berkeley Excellence in Advising 2017 Team Award.  The team award recognizes exceptional performance and innovation in advising on campus and…
December 12, 2017
Tsu-Jae King Liu and Eli Yablonovitch named NAI Fellows
Profs. Tsu-Jae King Liu and Eli Yablonovitch have been named 2017 Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI).  Fellowships are awarded to those who “have demonstrated a highly prolific spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that have made a tangible impact on quality of life, economic…
December 11, 2017
Yi Ma and Shafi Goldwasser named 2017 ACM Fellows
Incoming EECS faculty Yi Ma and Shafi Goldwasser have been named 2017 Fellows by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM).  “To be selected as a Fellow is to join our most renowned member grade and an elite group that represents less than 1 percent of ACM’s overall membership,” explains ACM President…
« Previous  Page
1
…
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions