URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/74
News Archive - Page 74 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
January 31, 2019
Thomas Philip joins Graduate School of Education faculty
EECS alumnus Thomas Philip (B.S. ’98) has joined the faculty of the U.C. Berkeley Graduate School of Education as an associate professor. He is interested in how teachers make sense of power and hierarchy in classrooms, schools and society, and how they navigate and ultimately transform classrooms and institutions toward…
January 31, 2019
Michael Orshansky named to eSilicon Technical Advisory Board
EECS alumnus Michael Orshansky (B.S./M.S./Ph.D. ’01, adviser: Chenming Hu) has been named to the technical advisory board of eSilicon, a leading provider of FinFET ASICs, market-specific IP platforms and 2.5D packaging solutions.  Orshansky, who is currently a faculty fellow at the Department of  Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University…
January 25, 2019
Jasmine Jan and Andre Lai present papers at Haas Scholars conference
Haas Scholars Jasmine Jan and Andre Lai, who are both Bioengineering majors minoring in EECS, made presentations at the 2019 Haas Scholars Spring Research Conference last week titled “Disrupting: Daring to Reimagine.”  Jan spoke about her research on a “Solution Processable Point-of-care Optoelectronic Device for Procalcitonin Sensing.” Lai spoke about…
January 25, 2019
Ken Goldberg and Eric Brewer on AI, Automation and the Future of Work
CS Profs. Ken Goldberg and Eric Brewer appeared in a live NewRetirement podcast to discuss Artificial Intelligence, Robots, Automation and the Future of Work.  The interview covered the history of technological revolutions, what’s happening now with technology like self-driving cars, AI, robotics, and automation and how it may impact society,…
January 25, 2019
Women in Data Science will take the challenge to make a difference
The 2nd Annual Women in Data Science (WiDS) 2019 Datathon will be held on Saturday, February 2, 2019 in Soda Hall.  The challenge will be to create a model that can detect oil palm plantations in high-resolution satellite imagery to help build awareness about deforestation and oil palm plantations.  The…
January 23, 2019
Michael Stonebraker to deliver opening keynote at Data Summit
ACM A.M. Turing Award Laureate and database technology pioneer Prof. Emeritus Michael Stonebraker will deliver the opening keynote at Data Summit 2019, titled “Big Data, Technological Disruption, and the 800-Pound Gorilla in the Corner.”  Stonebraker was the main architect of the INGRES relational DBMS, and the object-relational DBMS, POSTGRES, developed…
January 23, 2019
Alexandre Bayen joins Mobility panel at World Economic Forum
EE Prof. Alexandre Bayen will be part of a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, today titled “Meeting the Challenges of the New Mobility.”  Bayen, who is the director of the Institute of Transportation Studies (ITS), will discuss the societal impacts of the New Mobility, the massive ongoing transformation…
January 23, 2019
HP Names Yoky Matsuoka to Board of Directors
2014 CS Distinguished Alumna, Yoky Matsuoka (B.S. ’93), has been appointed to the Board of Directors of HP Inc.  Matsuoka was the founder of Google[x], the company’s innovative research and development lab, before serving as CTO of Google Alphabet’s Nest business.  She was also a senior executive at Apple and…
January 23, 2019
The shutdown and Berkeley: Q&A with Vice Chancellor Randy Katz
EE Prof. Randy Katz, now the Vice Chancellor for Research at Berkeley, answers questions  about how the standoff over President Trump’s border wall is affecting UC Berkeley’s research enterprise so far, and what will happen if the shutdown continues much longer.  “If people decide to leave the field, the scientific…
January 22, 2019
Students take another step toward an autonomous future
A team of Berkeley undergraduates that includes CS major Gan Tu,  EECS majors Philipp Wu (EE/ME), Malhar Patel, and Bradley Qu, and EECS minor Travis Brashears (Engineering Physics major), are building autonomous backpack-sized mobile robots for a project called Autonomous Motion at Cal (AMAC).  Their aim is to create autonomous…
« Previous  Page
1
…
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions