URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs
EECS Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
March 11, 2026
Eric Paulos elected to the ACM CHI Academy
The Association for Computing Machinery’s Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM SIGCHI) has elected Eric Paulos, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, to the ACM CHI Academy. Paulos is one of eleven individuals inducted to the Academy this year. The CHI Academy…
February 17, 2026
Three UC Berkeley EECS faculty named 2026 Sloan Fellows
Three early-career faculty in the UC Berkeley Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) – Yuan Cao, Sarah E. Chasins, and John Wright – have been awarded prestigious 2026 Sloan Research Fellowships.
February 13, 2026
In Memoriam: Beresford Parlett (1932–2026)
Beresford Parlett, a pioneer in numerical analysis and a foundational figure in the history of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS), died on Saturday, Feb. 7. He was 93. Parlett held a joint appointment in the Department of Mathematics and the EECS, representing the…
February 9, 2026
AI research deluge: why one conference is asking authors to rank their own papers
Emma Pierson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, agrees that self-rankings are an “exciting possibility”. “You know which papers are your ‘baby’, which papers you really love,” she says. “I think the author’s own self-ranking would be one valuable source of input if you…
January 29, 2026
Lensless imaging redefined  by information theory
Traditional cameras rely on bulky glass lenses to focus light into human-interpretable images. However, a new generation of “lensless” imagers is stripping away the glass, replacing it with thin optical masks and sophisticated algorithms. While these systems promise to make cameras thinner and more versatile, designing the…
December 18, 2025
Umesh Vazirani and co-authors receive FOCS Test of Time Award
EECS Professor Umesh Vazirani and co-authors Aranyak Mehta, Amin Saberi, and Vijay Vazirani are recipients of the FOCS Test of Time Award for their 2005 paper, “AdWords and Generalized On-line Matching.” Presented annually at the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS)…
December 17, 2025
Somayeh Sojoudi elevated to IEEE Fellow
Somayeh Sojoudi, Associate Professor-in-Residence of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and Mechanical Engineering, has been named an IEEE Fellow in the class of 2026 “for contributions to optimization and learning techniques for complex systems.” The IEEE Fellow distinction is the highest grade of membership…
December 16, 2025
Randy Katz receives honorary doctorate from University of Crete
EECS Professor Emeritus Randy Katz will be awarded an honorary doctorate from the Department of Computer Science at the University of Crete. The honorary doctorate is a distinction awarded by the University of Crete to recognize outstanding achievements in scholarship, science, and societal impact.
December 15, 2025
The Economist: The next version of the web will be built for machines, not humans
Dawn Song, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, says marketers may need to pitch not to people, but to “agent attention”.
December 12, 2025
WIRED: Coding Support with Sarah Chasins
UC Berkeley Computer Science Professor Sarah Chasins joins WIRED to answer the internet’s burning questions about coding. How did programmers code the first ever code? What remnants of the early World Wide Web still exist online? Can someone still learn programming if they hate math? How do…
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions