URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/26
Research Archives - Page 26 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
July 6, 2021
Nelson Morgan wins 2022 IEEE James L. Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award
EE Prof. Emeritus Nelson Morgan has won the 2022 James L. Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award, a prestigious IEEE Technical Field Award.  Morgan and co-recipient Herve Bourlard, who are known for their seminal work in the 1990s on a hybrid system approach to speech recognition that uses neural networks…
July 6, 2021
Kevin Cheang and Federico Mora win 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship
EECS Ph.D. students Kevin Cheang and Federico Mora (advisor: Sanjit A. Seshia) have been awarded a 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship (QiF) for their proposed project on “Practical Lifting for Verification of Trusted Platform Software.”  They are one of the sixteen winners of this year’s QiF North America competition, which recognizes…
June 29, 2021
Bin Yu awarded Honorary Doctorate from the University of Lausanne
CS Prof. Bin Yu has been awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Lausanne, Switzerland (UNIL).  Honoris causa doctorates are often conferred as a way of recognizing individuals who are unaffiliated with an institution but who have contributed to a specific field or to society in general.  Yu was cited…
June 22, 2021
Stuart Russell named Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
CS Prof. Stuart Russell, has been named a 2021 Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE).  The Officer rank is the second of the order, and is bestowed by the Sovereign of the United Kingdom twice a year to reward valuable “services rendered to the United…
June 10, 2021
Five projects led by EECS faculty win AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards
Five projects led by EECS faculty have won C3.ai Digital Transformation Institute (DTI) AI for Energy and Climate Security Awards. The awards recognize projects that are using AI techniques and digital transformation to advance energy efficiency and lead the way to a lower-carbon, higher-efficiency economy that will ensure energy and…
June 9, 2021
Jennifer Chayes wins 2020 ACM Distinguished Service Award
CS Prof. Jennifer Chayes, who is also the Associate Provost for the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), is the recipient of the 2020 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Distinguished Service Award.  She was selected for the award, which recognizes outstanding career-long “contributions to the computing community at…
June 1, 2021
Shankar Sastry wins 2021 ASME Rufus Oldenburger Medal
EECS Prof. S. Shankar Sastry has won the 2021 American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Rufus Oldenburger Medal for significant contributions and outstanding achievements to the field and profession of automatic control.  Sastry, who was dean of Berkeley Engineering for over ten years, was cited “For fundamental contributions to the…
May 26, 2021
NLP team helps a computer win the 2021 American Crossword Puzzle Tournament
A team at the Berkeley Natural Language Processing Group (NLP) helped augment an AI system named “Dr. Fill” that has won the 2021 American Crossword Puzzle Tournament (ACPT).  This is the first time in the contest’s history that an AI has trumped its human competitors.  The team, which included CS…
May 25, 2021
Tsu-Jae King Liu, Chenming Hu, and Leon Chua featured as luminaries on IEEE EDS podcast
Dean of Berkeley Engineering and EECS Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu, and EECS Profs. Emeritus Leon Chua and Chenming Hu (also Professor in the Graduate School), are featured as luminaries in an IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) Podcast Series.  Considered among “the most successful members of the [Electron Devices] Society,” these…
May 19, 2021
Charles Dove named 2021 Hertz Fellow
EE graduate student Charles Dove (advisor: Laura Waller) has been named a 2021 Fellow by the Fannie and John Hertz Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing groundbreaking applied science with real-world benefits for all humanity. Dove utilizes principles from machine learning and differentiable programming to create new methods for…
« Previous  Page
1
…
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions