URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/79
News Archive - Page 79 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
November 7, 2018
Berkeley computer theorists show path to verifying that quantum beats classical
UC Berkeley computer theorists led by CS Prof. Umesh Vazirani,  published a proof of random circuit sampling (RCS) as a verification method to prove quantum supremacy in a paper published Monday, Oct. 29, in the journal Nature Physics.  Quantum supremacy is the term that describes a quantum computer’s ability to…
November 7, 2018
Barbara Simons to be awarded Athena Lifetime Achievement Award
2005 CS Distinguished Alumna Barbara Simons (Ph.D. ’81) will be receiving the Athena Lifetime Achievement Award at the CITRIS Women in Tech Symposium on Friday, 11/16.  Simons, who is a past president of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), is board chair of Verified Voting, a non-partisan organization that advocates…
November 6, 2018
IP paper wins 2018 ACM SenSys Test of Time Award
A paper written by CS Prof. David Culler and alumnus Jonathan Hui (M.S. ’05/Ph.D. ’08) in 2008 titled “IP is Dead, Long Live IP for Wireless Sensor Networks” has won the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems (SenSys) 2018 Test of Time Award.  The paper…
November 6, 2018
“Graphical Lasso and Thresholding” wins 2018 Data Mining Best Paper Award
A paper titled “Graphical Lasso and Thresholding: Equivalence and Closed-form Solutions” by IEOR PhD candidate Salar Fattahi and EE Assistant Prof. Somayeh Sojoudi has won the 2018 Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) Data Mining (DM) Best Paper Award.   The paper compares the computationally-heavy Graphical Lasso (GL)…
November 5, 2018
In the Age of A.I., Is Seeing Still Believing?
EE Profs. Hany Farid and Alyosha Efros, the class CS 194-26—Image Manipulation and Computational Photography, and grad students Shiry Ginosar, Deepak Pathak, Angjoo Kanazawa, Richard Zhang, Jacob Huh and Tinghui Zhou are profiled in a New Yorker article titled “In the Age of A.I., Is Seeing Still Believing?” about how advances in…
November 5, 2018
Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli wins ACM SIGDA Pioneering Achievement Award
EE Prof. Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli has won the 2018 Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Design Automation (SIGDA)  Pioneering Achievement Award.   This award honors a person for a lifetime of outstanding contributions within the scope of electronic design automation, as evidenced by ideas pioneered in publications, industrial products,…
November 2, 2018
Teresa Meng wins ACM SIGMOBILE Outstanding Contribution Award
EECS alumna Theresa H. Meng (M.S. ’85/Ph.D. ’88 advisor: David Messerschmitt) has won the 2018 Association of Computing Machinery (ACM ) SIGMOBILE Outstanding Contribution Award.  This award is given for significant and lasting contributions to the research on mobile computing and communications and wireless networking.  Meng, who is a Professor…
November 1, 2018
Berkeley announces transformative Division of Data Science and Information
UC Berkeley today announced its plan to form a new interdisciplinary academic unit to coordinate and foster the growth of various programs related to informatics — which encompasses computing as well as societal implications of information technologies — across the campus. This new unit, provisionally named the Division of Data…
November 1, 2018
Machine Learning to Help Optimize Traffic and Reduce Pollution
CS Prof. Alexandre Bayen, the director of the Institute of Transportation Studies,  is leading a traffic-smoothing project dubbed CIRCLES (Congestion Impact Reduction via CAV-in-the-loop Lagrangian Energy Smoothing) that applies deep reinforcement learning to self-driving cars to smooth traffic, reduce fuel consumption, and improve air quality.  The potential for cities is…
October 31, 2018
Berkeley team is selected for first-ever grid software competition
A team lead by EE Assistant Prof. Somayeh Sojoudi, and IEOR Profs. Shmuel Oren and Javad Lavaei, has been selected for funding to participate in the ARPA-E Grid Optimization (GO) Competition today.  The GO Competition comprises a series of prize challenges to accelerate the development and comprehensive evaluation of new…
« Previous  Page
1
…
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions