URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/67
News Archive - Page 67 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
June 24, 2019
Raluca Ada Popa Named an MIT Technology Review 2019 Innovator Under 35
Today, the MIT Technology Review announced Raluca Ada Popa has been named to MIT Technology Review’s prestigious annual list of Innovators Under 35 as a Visionary. Every year, the world-renowned media company has recognized a list of exceptionally talented technologists whose work has great potential to transform the…
June 18, 2019
Berkeley distinguished by number of graduating startup founders
According to Crunchbase News,  UC Berkeley graduated 108 startup founders–not including business school graduates –who raised $1M or more after May 1, 2018.   This makes Berkeley the top-ranked public university, and the third-ranked university of any kind after Stanford and MIT, in founding graduates.  In the Crunchbase tally of all…
June 18, 2019
Joseph Gonzalez: at the intersection of machine learning and data systems
EECS Assistant Prof. Joseph Gonzalez is the focus of a profile for the Association for Computing Machinery’s “People of ACM” series.  Gonzalez, who works at the intersection of machine learning and data systems, desribes how and why his field has grown over time, where it might be heading, and what…
June 17, 2019
Elizaveta Tremsina is 2019 ACM SRC Grand Finals Winner
A paper written by recent graduate Elizaveta Tremsina (B.S. ’19 CS/Physics/Applied Math) has taken third place in the undergraduate category of the 2019 ACM Student Research Competition (SRC) Grand Finals.  The paper, titled “Your Story Recorded in a Magnet: Micromagnetic Simulations of Spin-Orbit Torque in Multi-layer Structures,” was a continuation…
June 12, 2019
Nadia Heninger wins Borg Early Career Award
EECS alumna Nadia Heninger (B.S. ’04) has won the 2019 Borg Early Career Award (BECA).  The BECA  is given to a woman in computer science and/or engineering who has made significant research contributions and who has contributed to her profession, especially in the outreach to women.  After graduation, Heninger earned…
June 7, 2019
Berkeley paper wins 2018 IEEE EDS George E. Smith Award
“Improved Subthreshold Swing and Short Channel Effect in FDSOI n-Channel Negative Capacitance Field Effect Transistors,” has won the 2018 IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) George E. Smith Award.  The paper was co-authored by current postdoc Korok Chatterjee, graduate student Ava J. Tan, former postdocs Daewoong Kwon,  Angada B. Sachid, Ajay…
June 6, 2019
College of Engineering wins Berkeley Communications Conference award
The College of Engineering Marketing & Communications team have won a Berkeley Communications Conference (BC2) Collateral Award for their “Berkeley Engineering bear (BEBear)” campaign.  To celebrate the holiday season of Berkeley Engineering’s sesquicentennial in 2018, the team created a template for an origami bear that could be printed out, folded, posed,…
June 6, 2019
Alexei Efros, Ren Ng and Kameshwar Poolla win EECS outstanding teaching awards
The winners of the 2019 EECS teaching awards have been announced:  Alexei Efros has won the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching Computer Science “for captivating lectures and engaging teaching in computer vision courses;”  Ren Ng has won the Jim and Donna Gray Faculty Award for Undergraduate Teaching…
June 5, 2019
Introducing the newest members of the EE faculty:  Boubacar Kanté  and Sophia Shao
Two new Electrical Engineering faculty are joining the EECS department in 2019:   Associate Prof. Boubacar Kanté joined the department in January.  His multidisciplinary research interests are in the areas of wave-matter interaction, from microwave to optics and related fields such as nanophotonics, nanoscale photon management, and biophysics.  Assistant Prof.
June 5, 2019
Mark D. Hill wins ACM-IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award
CS alumnus Mark D. Hill (Ph.D. ’87, advisers: David Patterson and Alan J. Smith) has won the ACM-IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award, considered the most prestigious award in the computer architecture community.  Hill, who is currently a professor at the University of Wisconsin—Madison, was cited “for contributions to memory consistency models…
« Previous  Page
1
…
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions