URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/122
News Archive - Page 122 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
February 8, 2017
Five EECS faculty among investigators awarded $14.5 million by CZ Biohub
Prof. Michel Maharbiz, Prof. Yun Song, Associate Prof. Laura Waller, Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller, and Assistant Prof. Nir Yosef are among the  thirteen UC Berkeley faculty chosen to receive up to $1.5 million each over the next five years by the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub.   The investigator awards are the…
February 8, 2017
Yongdong Wang named Global Senior Vice President at Microsoft
Alumnus Yongdong Wang (CS Ph.D. ’92),  currently Chief Technology Officer of Microsoft Asia-Pacific R&D Group, has been named Microsoft’s Global Senior Vice President.  Wang joined Microsoft in 2009, founding the Microsoft Asia-Pacific R&D Group in Beijing, and took on the additional role of managing director of Applications & Services Group…
February 6, 2017
The Sharing Economy for the Smart Grid
On February 14th, Prof. Kameshwar Poollawill lead a Power Systems Engineering Research Center (PSERC) webinar titled “The Sharing Economy for the Smart Grid.”  Funded by the DOE, this free, public webinar will explore sharing economy opportunities in the electricity sector.  The presentation will also discuss control technology platforms…
February 6, 2017
Nexar Hires Professor Trevor Darrell as Chief Scientist
Professor in Residence Trevor Darrell has been hired as Chief Scientist at Nexar, the world’s first over-the-top vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) network that turns smartphones into Artificial Intelligence Dashcams.  In parallel to his work in EECS, Darrell will lead research in the area of machine vision deep learning…
February 6, 2017
When Will the Robots Rebel?
Associate Prof. Pieter Abbeel and the Robot Learning Lab are profiled in a comprehensive article for Datamation titled “Artificial Intelligence: When Will the Robots Rebel?”  The article covers the foundational tools of AI, like machine learning, and delves into subjects like the human desire to replicate itself,…
February 3, 2017
EECS faculty participate in Advanced Robotics Manufacturing Innovation Hub
Prof. Ruzena Bajcsy, Assistant Prof. Anca Dragan, Prof. Ken Goldberg, and Dean Shankar Sastry are members of a Berkeley team participating in a new $253 million national consortium, the Advanced Robotics Manufacturing (ARM) Innovation Hub, led by the Department of Defense.  The ARM consortium, which has…
February 1, 2017
HKN receives 2015-2016 IEEE-HKN Outstanding Chapter Award
The UC Berkeley chapter of Eta Kappa Nu (HKN) has been named recipient the 2015-2016 IEEE-HKN Outstanding Chapter Award. This award is presented to IEEE-HKN chapters in recognition of excellence in their chapter administration and programs. Main criteria for being selected for this award are to improve professional development;…
January 23, 2017
RISELab Kicks Off
The CS Division has launched RISELab (Real-time Intelligence with Secure Execution Laboratory), the latest in its series of five-year intensive research labs in computer science. RISELab’s mission is to improve how machines make intelligent decisions based on real-time input.  It is the successor of AMPLab,  a pioneering Big Data effort,…
January 18, 2017
Leslie Field develops technology to deal with climate change
EECS alumna Leslie Field (M.S. ’88, Ph.D. ’91) is featured in a Berkeley Engineering news article titled “One big reflective band-aid”. After watching Al Gore’s film “An Inconvenient Truth” in 2006, Field was inspired to develop a technology to deal with climate change. The following year she began testing ideas…
January 18, 2017
Bob Jewett rules billiards
Alumnus Bob Jewett (EECS BS ’75/M.S. ’79) is profiled in a Berkeley Engineer article titled “Bob Jewett’s double life” which describes the retired HP/Agilent/Keysight engineer’s life-long fascination with the rules and science of billiards.  Bob has published hundreds of articles on subjects like table friction, shots that depend on…
« Previous  Page
1
…
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions