URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/division/cs/page/5
CS Archives - Page 5 of 104 - EECS at Berkeley
Division: CS
June 10, 2025
Michael Harrison has passed away
EECS Professor Emeritus Michael A. Harrison passed away on Saturday, June 7. He was 89. Professor Harrison earned his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan in 1963. That same year, he joined the University of California, Berkeley, as an assistant professor and spent most of his academic…
May 28, 2025
Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey win the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award
EECS Teaching Professors Dan Garcia and Brian Harvey have been awarded the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) announced today in a press release. Garcia and Harvey were recognized “for their advocacy of and advances in education to bring the beauty and joy…
May 16, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 16, 2025
May 9, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 9, 2025
May 6, 2025
Jan Rabaey to Receive the John Choma Education Award
UC Berkeley EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey was selected as the winner of the John Choma Education Award for “for contributions to education and leadership in integrated circuits and systems.” This award is given by the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CAS) and was named to recognize John Choma, who was…
May 5, 2025
EECS faculty and alumni named to inaugural NSTC Technical Advisory Board
Natcast, the entity designated by the Department of Commerce to operate the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), has announced its inaugural Technical Advisory Board (TAB). This advisory board, established by the CHIPS and Science Act, brings together top experts to shape the NSTC’s research agenda, driving U.S. innovation and leadership…
May 2, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | May 2, 2025
May 1, 2025
Armando Fox and Dan Garcia receive Leon A. Henkin Citation
EECS Professors Armando Fox and Dan Garcia have been awarded the prestigious Leon A. Henkin Citation by UC Berkeley’s Committee on Diversity, Equity, and Campus Climate (DECC). Named after Emeritus Professor of Mathematics Leon A. Henkin, who founded the Committee on Special Scholarships in 1963 to support students from…
April 24, 2025
Scientists trick the eye into seeing new color ‘olo’
In Frank Baum’s original novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Emerald City is said to be such a brilliant shade of green that visitors must wear green-tinted glasses to protect their eyes from “the brightness and glory” of the city. The glasses are one of the…
April 24, 2025
UC Berkeley celebrates opening of Grimes Engineering Center
Students, faculty, staff, key benefactors and the legendary Oski the Bear came together Monday for a festive celebration of the opening of the Grimes Engineering Center, a new hub on the north side of campus. UC Berkeley Engineering marked this exciting milestone — just two years after the building’s groundbreaking…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
104
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions