URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/94
News Archive - Page 94 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 10, 2018
5 questions for Randy Katz
EECS professor and UC Berkeley’s new Vice Chair for Research, Randy Katz, is interviewed in Cal Alumni’s California Magazine about his approach to his new job.  The article covers how one might go about creating a nurturing environment for pursuing innovative research, his predictions about future technologies, the integration of…
April 10, 2018
Research breakthrough StimDust is the smallest volume, most efficient wireless nerve stimulator to date
A research team led by Assistant Prof. Rikky Muller and Prof. Michel Maharbiz have created StimDust (stimulating neural dust), the smallest volume, most efficient wireless nerve stimulator to date.  The innovation adds more sophisticated electronics to neural dust (tiny, wireless sensors first implanted by Maharbiz and Prof. Jose Carmena in…
April 9, 2018
A step forward in Stephen Derenzo’s search for dark matter
Prof. Stephen Derenzo is quoted in an article for Australia’s Particle about a new material for a proposed detector of weakly interactive massive particles (WIMPs).  Derenzo is the lead author of a study published March 20 in the Journal of Applied Physics about a crystal called gallium…
April 3, 2018
John Kubiatowicz and Group’s (Circa 2000) Paper Named Most Influential at ASPLOS 2018
At the ASPLOS conference in late March, John Kubitowicz and his group from 2000 were celebrated for their paper, “OceanStore: an architecture for global-scale persistent storage.” The paper was named Most Influential Paper 2018, and the authors receiving the award included David Bindel, Yan Chen, Steven Czerwinski, Patrick Eaton, Dennis Geels,…
March 29, 2018
Data 8X is the fastest-growing course in Berkeley’s history
The Foundations of Data Science (Data 8X), which is being offered free online this spring for the first time through the campus’s online education hub, edX, is the fastest-growing course in UC Berkeley’s history.  Taught by Prof. David Wagner,  Assistant Teaching Prof. John DeNero (recipient of the 2018 Distinguished Teaching…
March 21, 2018
Dave Patterson wins ACM Turing Award with Stanford’s Hennessy for Creation of RISC
The Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) announced today that the winners of the 2017 ACM Turing Award are UC Berkeley’s David A. Patterson and Stanford University’s John L. Hennessy for “pioneering a systematic, quantitative approach to the design and evaluation of computer architectures with enduring impact on the microprocessor industry.
March 21, 2018
EE and CE grad programs place #1 and #2 in 2019 US News rankings
The Berkeley Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering programs have been ranked #1 and #2 respectively by U.S.News & World Report, continuing our tradition as one of the best EECS graduate programs the world.  In the 2019 rankings, Electrical/Electronic/Communications Engineering moved up from #3 to #1, tying with MIT and Stanford. …
March 15, 2018
Amal El-Ghazaly forges a path in higher education
EE postdoctoral fellow Amal El-Ghazaly, who works with the Nanoelectronics and Nanostructures Group, is featured in a Berkeley News article as one of the 25 scholars from Berkeley, Stanford, Caltech and UCLA who’ve won postdoctoral fellowships from the NSF-sponsored California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP).  The…
March 15, 2018
John DeNero wins 2018 UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award
Assistant Teaching Prof. John DeNero has won the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award.   The award, presented by the Academic Senate, recognizes U.C. Berkeley’s brightest teaching stars for their inspiring and transformational teaching.  DeNero says his teaching goal is not necessarily to make students happy but to help them learn how to…
March 12, 2018
Barbara Simons proves how easy it is to hack elections—and how it can be stopped
College of Engineering Distinguished Alumna Barbara Simons (Ph.D. ’81) is the subject of an article in the Dail Kos titled “Computer scientist Barbara Simons proves how easy it is to hack elections—and how it can be stopped.”  Simons,  who runs Verified Voting, has been a longtime advocate for bringing paper ballots back…
« Previous  Page
1
…
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions