URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/97
News Archive - Page 97 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
February 7, 2018
Constance Chang-Hasnain and David Tse elected members of the National Academy of Engineering
Prof. Constance Chang-Hasnain and Adjunct Prof. David Tse have been elected members of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE).   Election to the NAE is among the highest professional distinctions accorded to an engineer.  Academy membership honors those who have made outstanding contributions to “engineering research, practice, or education, including, where…
February 7, 2018
Jiawang Nie wins the 2018 SIAM Activity Group on Linear Algebra Best Paper Prize
Alumnus Jiawang Nie (Ph.D. ’06, co-advisors: James Demmel and Bernd Sturmfels) has won the 2018 Best Paper Prize from the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Activity Group on Linear Algebra (SIAG/LA).  His paper, Generating Polynomials and Symmetric Tensor Decompositions, Foundations of Computational Mathematics, was deemd the most…
February 2, 2018
Laura Waller wins 2018 SPIE Early Career Achievement Award
Associate Prof. Laura Waller has won the 2018 Early Career Achievement Award–Academic focus–from the International Society for Optics and Photonics (SPIE). The award, which is paired with an industry-focused award, is presented annually in recognition of significant and innovative technical contributions in the engineering or scientific fields of relevance to…
February 2, 2018
Avideh Zakhor named Electronic Imaging Scientist of the Year
Prof. Avideh Zakhor has been named 2018 Electronic Imaging Scientist of the Year by the Society for Imaging Science and Technology.  She was cited “for her significant contributions to signal processing, including 3D image processing & computer vision, 3D reality capture systems,  3D modeling, mapping and positioning,  image and video compression and communication.” …
February 2, 2018
Alex Bayen on why traffic apps make congestion worse
Prof. Alexandre Bayen, director of UC Berkeley’s Institute of Transportation Studies, is working on smarter traffic apps that will talk to one another to prevent clogged freeways and city streets.  When Bayen spoke at the Cal Future Forum in 2017, he described how UC Berkeley transportation researchers are developing the…
January 29, 2018
Mostafa Kaveh named University of Minnesota CSE interim dean
EE alumnus Mostafa “Mos” Kaveh (M.S. ’70) has been named interim dean of the College of Science and Engineering (CSE) at the University of Minnesota.  CSE, the University’s second largest college, spans 12 departments and is ranked among the top engineering and science academic programs in the country.  Kaveh joined…
January 29, 2018
Dawn Song participates in ‘first US-China’ Blockchain conference
CS Prof. Dawn Song participated in a panel discussion at the Blockchain Connect conference in San Francisco last week, an event designed to unite the U.S. and China Blockchain communities. Song leads the BitBlaze: Binary Analysis for Computer Security project, an analysis platform that will incorporate various AI and Blockchain…
January 25, 2018
Introducing the 2018 EE and CS distinguished alumni
The 2018 EECS Distinguished Alumni are Prof. Marie desJardins , Prof. Andrea Goldsmith, Richard Ruby, and our own EECS Prof. Emeritus Eric Brewer.  CS alumna desJardins (Ph.D. ’92), currently a Professor of Computer Science & Electrical Engineering, and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs in the College of Engineering & Information…
January 24, 2018
Dutta, Niknejad, and Salahuddin lead new research centers to help usher in future of microelectronics
Associate Prof. Prabal Dutta, Prof. Ali Niknejad, and Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin are leading partners in three new multi-university research centers that aim to jump-start the future technologies for the microelectronics industry, with a particular focus on energy-efficient computing as well as communications and sensing.  Dutta is the associate director of…
January 23, 2018
A celebration of diversity in engineering and science featuring Gary May
The  Cal Alumni Association and the Black Alumni Club are hosting an event Celebrating Diversity in Engineering and Science at Cal on February 10, 2018.  It will honor the 50th anniversary of the Black Engineering and Science Student Association (BESSA) and the 30th anniversary of the Black Graduate Engineering and…
« Previous  Page
1
…
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions