URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/integrated-circuits-inc
Integrated Circuits (INC) Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Integrated Circuits (INC)
July 10, 2025
Jan Rabaey receives 2026 IEEE Donald O. Pederson Award in Solid-State Circuits
EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey has been selected to receive the 2026 IEEE Donald O. Pederson Award in Solid-State Circuits. This prestigious award recognizes his outstanding contributions to the field of solid-state circuits, as measured by his impact on society, innovation, and leadership in the field. Rabaey was cited “for…
July 7, 2025
EECS Researchers win Most Influential Paper Award from Design Automation Conference
EECS researchers Jonathan Bachrach, John Wawrzynek, Krste Asanovic, and their students and collaborators Huy Vo, Brian Richards, Yunsup Lee, Andrew Waterman, and Rimas Aviženis have received the Design Automation Conference’s (DAC) Most Influential Paper Award for the decade 2010–2020.Their groundbreaking paper, “Chisel: Constructing Hardware in a Scala Embedded Language” (2012),…
May 6, 2025
Jan Rabaey to Receive the John Choma Education Award
UC Berkeley EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey was selected as the winner of the John Choma Education Award for “for contributions to education and leadership in integrated circuits and systems.” This award is given by the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CAS) and was named to recognize John Choma, who was…
May 5, 2025
EECS faculty and alumni named to inaugural NSTC Technical Advisory Board
Natcast, the entity designated by the Department of Commerce to operate the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), has announced its inaugural Technical Advisory Board (TAB). This advisory board, established by the CHIPS and Science Act, brings together top experts to shape the NSTC’s research agenda, driving U.S. innovation and leadership…
January 11, 2024
Small solar sails could be the next ‘giant leap’ for interplanetary space exploration
EECS Professor Kris Pister and researchers seek to leverage advancements in micro-scale technology to make interplanetary space exploration more cost-effective and accessible — and to accelerate new discoveries about our inner solar system. They describe their work, the Berkeley Low-cost Interplanetary Solar Sail (BLISS) project, in a study published in…
View
Open Faculty Positions