URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs/page/9
EECS Archives - Page 9 of 21 - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
February 19, 2025
New Engineering Center to be named after UC Berkeley alumni Michael and Janelle Grimes
UC Berkeley’s new Engineering Center has been named after alumni Mark and Stephanie Grimes, honoring their contributions to the College of Engineering. The building’s name honors Michael (B.S.’87 EECS) and Janelle Grimes (B.A.’86 PoliSci), who met as undergraduates at UC Berkeley. Michael Grimes would go on to become a successful…
February 18, 2025
Natacha Crooks named Sloan Fellow
EECS Assistant Professor Natacha Crooks has been awarded a prestigious Sloan Research Fellowship, granted annually to “honor exceptional researchers at U.S. and Canadian educational institutions whose creativity, innovation and research accomplishments make them stand out as the next generation of leaders,” according to an announcement issued today (Feb. 18).  …
February 14, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | February 14, 2025
February 12, 2025
Stuart Russell elected to the National Academy of Engineering
EECS Professor Stuart Russell has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering (NAE). Russell was recognized “for contributions to developments in artificial intelligence, including reasoning, probabilistic modeling, planning, safety, and education.” Election to the National Academy of Engineering is among the…
February 12, 2025
Michael I. Jordan named Frontiers of Knowledge Laureate
EECS and Statistics Professor Emeritus and Professor of the Graduate School Michael I. Jordan has been named a Frontiers of Knowledge Laureate. The 17th edition of the award recognizes and rewards excellence in research and cultural creation, especially contributions that have achieved broad impact due to their originality and significance.
February 7, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | February 7, 2025
February 3, 2025
Boubacar Kante named Optica Fellow
EECS Professor Boubacar Kante has been elected as an Optica Fellow, one of the highest honors in the field of optics and photonics. Kante was recognized “for creating and demonstrating new concepts in modern electromagnetics, particularly a path toward very-high-power, broad-area single-mode semiconductor lasers.” Optica Fellows are selected based on…
January 31, 2025
EECS Undergraduate Newsletter | January 31, 2025
January 30, 2025
NBC News: Ion Stoica on DeepSeek
EECS Professor Ion Stoica discusses DeepSeek with Gadi Schwartz on NBC News NOW.
January 29, 2025
Using AI, these robots learn complicated skills with startling accuracy
At UC Berkeley, researchers in Sergey Levine’s Robotic AI and Learning Lab eyed a table where a tower of 39 Jenga blocks stood perfectly stacked. Then a white-and-black robot, its single limb doubled over like a hunched-over giraffe, zoomed toward the tower, brandishing a black leather whip. Through what might have…
« Previous  Page
1
…
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions