URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/27
News Archive - Page 27 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 15, 2022
Ana Arias receives honorary doctorate from Tampere University
EE Prof. Ana Claudia Arias has been conferred an honorary doctorate from Tampere University in Finland. Prof. Arias is one of 14 distinguished individuals to receive an honorary doctorate at Tampere University’s inaugural conferment ceremony, including Ban Ki-Moon, former secretary general of the United Nations. Tampere University, as it is…
August 10, 2022
‘Bro’ wins USENIX Security Test of Time Award
CS Prof. Vern Paxson has won the USENIX Security Test of Time Award. Originally published in 1998, Prof. Paxson’s paper, “Bro: A System for Detecting Network Intruders in Real-Time,” was selected for its lasting impact on the research community and by traditional publication metrics; as of this writing, “Bro” has…
August 9, 2022
Laura Waller balances work, life, research, and family in a feature by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
EECS Prof. Laura Waller is the subject of a feature by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative titled, “A Day in the Life of an Imaging Scientist: Laura Waller.” In it, Prof. Waller describes her day-to-day while she juggles raising a family, cultivating creativity and collaboration in her labs, and mentoring her…
August 4, 2022
Berkeley EECS team wins $5M to advance blockchain research and education
A team of UC Berkeley researchers led by Assistant Prof. Natacha Crooks has won $5M to advance blockchain research and education programs. The team, which includes CS Profs. Sanjam Garg, Dawn Song, and Shafi Goldwasser, along with members of Berkeley Haas, Berkeley Law, and Imperial College London will launch a…
July 29, 2022
Paul Debevec to receive Emmy for Lifetime Achievement
EECS alumnus Paul Debevec (Ph.D. ‘96, advisor: Jitendra Malik) will receive the Charles F. Jenkins Lifetime Achievement Award at the Television Academy’s 74th Engineering, Science & Technology Emmy Awards. The award recognizes Debevec for his pioneering work on high dynamic range imaging, image-based lighting, and photogrammetry–techniques that are now standard…
July 21, 2022
Xin Lyu wins CCC 2022 Best Student Paper Award
CS graduate student Xin Lyu (advisors: Jelani Nelson and Avishay Tal) has won the Best Student Paper Award at the Computational Complexity Conference (CCC) 2022. The solo-authored paper titled “Improve Pseudorandom Generators for AC^0 Circuits” was one of two co-winners of the Best Student Paper Award at CCC, which is…
July 15, 2022
Berkeley EECS paper wins 2022 ACM SIGPLAN Distinguished Paper Award
A paper co-authored by CS Prof. Alvin Cheung has won the ACM SIGPLAN Distinguished Paper at the 43rd Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI) 2022. The paper titled, “Synthesizing Analytical SQL queries from Computation Demonstration,” introduces a tool called Sickle, a new end-user specification, programming by computation demonstration,…
July 12, 2022
Gary May and Sheila Humphreys interviewed for Inside Higher Ed
EECS alumnus Gary S. May (M.S. ’88/Ph.D. ’91, advisor: Costas Spanos), the first Black chancellor of UC Davis, is the focus of an Inside Higher Ed story highlighting the unique bond between three Black Berkeley Engineering alumni in the 1980s, all of whom have gone on to lead top research…
July 8, 2022
Ion Stoica wins 2023 IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computers and Communications Award
CS Prof. Ion Stoica has won the 2023 IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computers and Communications Award. Presented annually, the IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computers and Communications Award was established by the IEEE Board of Directors in 1986 for outstanding contributions to the integration of computers and communications. The award is named in…
July 5, 2022
Jennifer Chayes elected as honorary member of the London Mathematical Society
CS Prof. Jennifer Chayes, the Associate Provost of the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), and the Dean of the School of Information has been elected to become an Honorary Member of the London Mathematical Society (LMS). Each year, the Council of the LMS considers the election of…
« Previous  Page
1
…
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions