URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/30
Research Archives - Page 30 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
February 10, 2021
David Patterson wins Frontiers of Knowledge Award
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson has won the 13th BBVA Foundation Frontiers of Knowledge Award in Information and Communication Technologies.  He shares the award with John Hennessy of Stanford University “for taking computer architecture, the discipline behind the central processor or ‘brain’ of every computer system, and launching it…
February 5, 2021
Rediet Abebe and Jelani Nelson to participate in U-M Africa Week
CS Prof. Jelani Nelson and Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe will be participating on a panel about the “Role of Computing in Africa’s Economic Future” at the University of Michigan Africa Week conference on Tuesday, February 16th, from 9:30 am to 10:45 (EST).  U-M Africa Week brings together “thought leaders…
January 31, 2021
Kam Lau wins IEEE Microwave Pioneer Award
EE Prof. Kam Lau has won the 2021 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Microwave Theory & Techniques Society (MTT-S) Microwave Power Award.  This award recognizes an individual or a small team who have made outstanding pioneering technical contributions that advance microwave theory and techniques, which are described in…
January 28, 2021
Fung Feature: Liaowang Zou
Liaowang (Zoey) Zou, an EECS Master of Engineering (MEng) candidate with a concentration in Data Science and Systems, is the subject of a Coleman Fung Institute interview.  Zou, who grew up in China, describes how she became interested in STEM as a child, what drove her to EECS, her experience…
January 28, 2021
New wearable device detects intended hand gestures before they’re made
A team of researchers, including EECS graduate students Ali Moin, Andy Zhou, Alisha Menon, George Alexandrov, Jonathan Ting and Yasser Khan, Profs. Ana Arias and Jan Rabaey, postdocs Abbas Rahimi and Natasha Yamamoto, visiting scholar Simone Benatti, and BWRC research engineer Fred Burghardt, have created a new flexible armband that…
January 28, 2021
Rediet Abebe and Shafi Goldwasser to speak at Women in Data Science 2021
Computer Science Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe and Prof. and alumna Shafi Goldwasser (M.S. ’81/Ph.D. ’84, advisor: Manuel Blum) are slated to speak at the inaugural  24-hour virtual Women in Data Science (WiDS) conference, hosted by Stanford University on International Women’s Day, March 8th.  WiDS first took shape at Stanford in…
January 27, 2021
Steven Cao wins CRA 2021 Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Award
Senior EECS student Steven Cao has won a Computing Research Association (CRA) 2021 Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Award, and senior Stephen Tian was named runner-up.    The award recognizes significant contributions to computing research projects.  Cao (nominated by Prof. Dan Klein)  worked with the Berkeley Natural Language Processing group, where he developed new…
January 14, 2021
Randy Katz to step down as Vice Chancellor for Research
EECS Prof. and alumnus Randy Katz (M.S. ’78 / Ph.D. ’80) has announced that he will be retiring in June 2021, and will step down as UC Berkeley’s Vice Chancellor for Research.  During his tenure as vice chancellor, Katz demonstrated a deep commitment to research excellence at Berkeley, helping to…
January 14, 2021
Sanjit Seshia and John Canny named ACM Fellows
CS Profs. Sanjit Seshia and John Canny have been named to the 2020 class of fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in recognition of their fundamental contributions to computing and information technology.  Seshia, whose PhD thesis work at Carnegie Mellon on the UCLID verifier and decision procedure helped pioneer…
December 18, 2020
5 questions for Michael Jordan and Rediet Abebe
CS Prof. Michael Jordan and Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe are featured in the Center for Data Innovation’s “5 Questions” series, in which data innovators discuss their research focus areas and careers.  Jordan, whose research spans computational, statistical, cognitive, and social sciences, discusses how economic concepts can help advance AI as…
« Previous  Page
1
…
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions