URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/scientific-computing-sci
Scientific Computing (SCI) Archives - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Scientific Computing (SCI)
December 2, 2025
Venkatesan Guruswami named Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing
Venkatesan Guruswami has been selected as the new director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley, following an international search. The Simons Institute is the world’s foremost center for collaborative research in theoretical computer science, bringing together scholars to tackle foundational questions…
July 18, 2025
Alvin Cheung receives ACSIC Rock Star Award
CS Professor Alvin Cheung has been awarded the Rock Star Award for Mid-Career Investigators by the Association of Chinese Scholars in Computing (ACSIC). This prestigious award recognizes individuals who have made outstanding contributions to computing within 12 years of completing their most recent computing-related degree. The ACSIC Rock Star Award…
July 14, 2025
Jennifer Chayes recognized with 2025 Richard Tapia Award for efforts to diversify computing
Jennifer Chayes, EECS Professor and Dean of the College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) at UC Berkeley, has been named the recipient of the 2025 Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science, and Diversifying Computing.
July 7, 2025
EECS Researchers win Most Influential Paper Award from Design Automation Conference
EECS researchers Jonathan Bachrach, John Wawrzynek, Krste Asanovic, and their students and collaborators Huy Vo, Brian Richards, Yunsup Lee, Andrew Waterman, and Rimas Aviženis have received the Design Automation Conference’s (DAC) Most Influential Paper Award for the decade 2010–2020.Their groundbreaking paper, “Chisel: Constructing Hardware in a Scala Embedded Language” (2012),…
June 27, 2025
Sagar Karandikar wins 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award
EECS Assistant Professor Sagar Karandikar has been awarded the 2025 ACM SIGARCH/IEEE CS TCCA Outstanding Dissertation Award. This prestigious honor recognizes exceptional doctoral research in the field of computer architecture.Karandikar was recognized “for advancing the state-of-the-art in agile hardware/software co-design tools and deploying them at a hyperscaler to architect custom…
June 27, 2025
EECS researchers win Best Robot Learning Paper Award at IEEE ICRA 2025
Professors Ken Goldberg, John Kubiatowicz, and their team of students and collaborators: Kaiyuan Chen, Letian Fu, David Huang, Yanxiang Zhang, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Huang Huang, Kush Hari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Ted Xiao, and Pannag R Sanketi, have received the Best Robot Learning Paper Award at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics…
February 12, 2025
20 UC Berkeley alumni, students and faculty shine on Forbes 30 Under 30 list
EECS alumni named in Forbes 30 Under 30 list.
September 26, 2024
AI hardware hub awarded $16.3M from DOD
Three projects in the California-Pacific-Northwest AI Hardware Hub (NW-AI-Hub) aimed at dramatically improving the energy efficiency of artificial intelligence hardware are getting a $16.3 million boost from the Department of Defense.
December 14, 2023
CS alumna Giulia Guidi wins SIAM Activity Group on Supercomputing Early Career Prize
CS alumna Giulia Guidi (Ph.D. ’22; Advisors: Aydın Buluç and Katherine Yelick) has won the SIAM Activity Group on Supercomputing Early Career Prize for her work in applying High-performance computing to computational genomics. Guidi is now an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and a Graduate Field Faculty…
View
Open Faculty Positions