URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/honors/page/30
Honors Archives - Page 30 of 71 - EECS at Berkeley
Honors
October 1, 2020
Sophia Shao and Alp Sipahigil win Berkeley Engineering faculty fellowships
New EECS Assistant Profs. Sophia Shao and Alp Sipahigil have received Engineering faculty fellowships, which will help fund the first five years of their projects and labs at Berkeley.   The fellowships are sponsored by Berkeley Engineering alumni and friends as part of a $1.25M program that will be shared among…
September 29, 2020
Alessandro Chiesa receives 2020 Okawa Research Grant
CS Assistant Prof. Alessandro Chiesa has been selected as a 2020 Okawa Foundation Research Grant recipient for his work on the “Foundations of Quantum and Non-Signaling Proofs (Post-Quantum Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Secure Distributed Systems).”  Okawa Research Grants are awarded to Asian and American scholars for studies and analyses in the…
September 25, 2020
Tiffany Chien and Jason Zhou named 2021 Siebel Scholars
EECS 5th Yr Masters students Tiffany Chien and Jason Zhou have been selected for the Siebel Scholars Foundation class of 2021.   They are among 92 distinguished engineering students from the “world’s leading graduate schools of business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science” to win Siebel Scholars awards this year,  including eight…
September 22, 2020
Boubacar Kanté wins 2020 Moore Inventor Fellowship
EECS Associate Prof. Boubacar Kanté has been selected by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation to be among its 2020 cohort of Moore Inventor Fellows. The fellowship supports “scientist-inventors who create new tools and technologies with a high potential” to accelerate progress in scientific discovery, environmental conservation and patient care.
September 8, 2020
Gitanjali Swamy is one of the most Influential Indian Women in Technology in 2020
EECS alumna Gitanjali Swamy (Ph.D. ’96, advisor: Robert Brayton) has been named one of the most Influential Women in Technology in 2020 by India’s Analytics Insight magazine.   She was recognized for “helping enterprises realize their potential through the ‘Innovation of Things (IoT).'”  Swamy is the Managing Partner of IoTask, which…
August 29, 2020
Victor Han selected runner-up for ISMRM I.I. Rabi Award
Third year EECS PhD candidate Victor Han (advisor: Prof. Chunlei Liu) was selected as a finalist for the International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM) I.I. Rabi Young Investigator Award for original basic research.  He was chosen for his paper entitled “Multiphoton Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” in which he developed…
August 27, 2020
Brian Harvey wins NTLS Education Technology Leadership Award
CS Teaching Prof. Emeritus Brian Harvey has been awarded the National Technology Leadership Summit (NTLS) Education Technology Leadership Award, which recognizes individuals who made a significant impact on the field of educational technology over the course of a lifetime.  The award is NTLS’s highest honor.  Harvey wrote the “Computer Science…
August 17, 2020
Ava Tan wins DRC 2020 Best Paper Award
EECS graduate student Ava Jiang Tan (advisor: Sayeef Salahuddin) has won the 2020 Best Paper Award at the 78th Device Research Conference (DRC) for “Reliability of Ferroelectric HfO2-based Memories: From MOS Capacitor to FeFET.”  The paper, co-authored by Profs. Salahuddin and Chenming Hu, grad student Yu-Hung Liao, postdoc Jong-Ho Bae,…
August 17, 2020
Josephine Williamson celebrated as  influential leader
EECS director of operations Josephine Williamson is one of 18 unsung heroines at UC Berkeley being honored this month as part of the Berkeley 150W project.  Williamson, whom Vice Provost Tsu-Jae King Liu describes as “an exemplary builder of positive working relationships,” knows the department inside and out.  She began…
August 4, 2020
Vikram Iyer named 2020 Marconi Society Young Scholar
EECS alumnus Vikram Iyer (B.S. ’15) has won a Marconi Society Paul Baran Young Scholar Award, which honors “the world’s most innovative young engineers in Information and Communications Technology (ICT).” Iyer’s research focusses on bio-inspired and bio-integrative wireless sensor systems that enable traditionally stationary Internet of Things (IoT) devices to…
« Previous  Page
1
…
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
…
71
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions