URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/91
News Archive - Page 91 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
May 3, 2018
Donald J. Hoffman on the need to diversify fuel sources
EE alumnus and retired Air Force general Donald J. Hoffman (M.S. ’75) was interviewed by the Midwest Energy News for an article titled “Q&A: Retired Air Force general on the need to diversify fuel sources.”  Hoffman spent 42 years in the military as a pilot and manager of Air Force…
May 3, 2018
Silvio Micali to speak at AiDecentralized summit
CS alumnus Silvio Micali (Ph.D. ’82) will speak at the AiDecentralized summit in Toronto, Canada on May 22.  The first in a series of global summits initiated by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), it aims to bring AI practitioners together with cryptographers.  Micali, who is currently a professor at…
May 3, 2018
Kristin Stephens-Martinez is new assistant professor of practice at Duke
CS alumna Kristin Stephens-Martinez (M.S. ’13/Ph.D. ’17 advisors: Vern Paxson/Armando Fox) is a new Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Computer Science at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina.  Her research interests lie at the intersection of education and computer science, focusing on using data available in…
May 2, 2018
Laura Waller on the appeal of working at the intersection of two fields
EE and CS Associate Prof. Laura Waller was interviewed by Computer Vision News in advance of her keynote address to the IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging (ISBI) in April.  She describes the appeal of working at the intersection of two fields:  design of optical systems and computational algorithms.  She…
May 2, 2018
Scott Shenker wins 2017 ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award
Prof. Scott Shenker has been named the 2017 ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award recipient.   The award honors specific theoretical accomplishments that have had a significant and demonstrable effect on the practice of computing.   Shenker is honored for pioneering contributions to fair queueing in packet-switching networks, which had…
May 2, 2018
Pieter Abbeel, Robert Full, and Ken Goldberg will speak at TechCrunch Sessions: Robotics 2018
Three EECS professors are featured speakers at the upcoming TechCrunch Sessions: Robotics on May 11 at Zellerbach Hall.  The single-day event will focus on the crossroads of the latest AI and robotics technology and the startup ecosystem.  Prof. Pieter Abbeel, who works in machine learning and robotics (and who co-founded …
May 2, 2018
Ram Vasudevan receives 2018 ONR Young Investigator Award
EE alumnus Ram Vasudevan (B.S. ’06/M.S. ’09/Ph.D. ’12) is the recipient of a 2018 Young Investigator award from the Office of Naval Research (ONR).  Vasudevan is an assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Michigan.  He was chosen for the proposal “Real-Time Certified, Safe Control Synthesis for Autonomous…
May 2, 2018
Brighten Godfrey to present at ONUG Spring 2018
CS alumnus Brighten Godfrey (Ph.D. ’09), who is the co-founder and CTO of Veriflow, will speak at the upcoming Open Networking User Group (ONUG) Spring 2018 conference on May 9.  His session, “Intent-based Network Verification: Practical Use Cases,” will demonstrate how the Veriflow Continuous Network Verification platform provides network assurance…
May 1, 2018
How Mary Ann Horton invented the email attachment, then revolutionized trans rights
CS alumna Mary Ann Horton (Ph.D. ’81) is the subject of a Daily Beast article titled “How Mary Ann Horton Invented the Email Attachment, Then Revolutionized Trans Rights.”  As a student, Horton contributed to Berkeley UNIX (BSD), including the vi editor and terminfo database, and created the first email attachment…
May 1, 2018
Editing brain activity with holography
The research of Associate Prof. Laura Waller is highlighted in a Berkeley News article titled “Editing brain activity with holography.”  Waller is co-author of a paper published in the journal Nature Neuroscience that describes a holographic brain modulator which can activate up to 50 neurons at once in a three-dimensional…
« Previous  Page
1
…
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions