URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research/colloquium/170215-2
Adding “Human-Like” Sensing and Intelligence to Devices and Machines - EECS at Berkeley
Adding “Human-Like” Sensing and Intelligence to Devices and Machines
EECS Colloquium
Wednesday, February 15, 2017
306 Soda Hall (HP Auditorium)
4:00 – 5:00 pm
Achin Bhowmik
VP/General Manager, Perceptual Computing Group, Intel
Abstract
With recent advances in natural sensing and perceptual computing technologies, devices and machines are increasingly being endowed with the abilities to “sense”, “understand”, and “interact” with us and the physical world. This seminar will present the  Intel® RealSenseTM Technology , and demonstrate a new class of applications based on real-time 3D-sensing and visual intelligence, including interactive computing devices, autonomous robots and drones, as well as immersive virtual and merged reality devices that are blurring the border between the real and the virtual words.
Biography
Dr. Achin Bhowmik is vice president and general manager of the perceptual computing group at Intel, where he leads the research, development and deployment of  Intel® RealSense™ Technology . His responsibilities include creating and growing new businesses in the areas of visual intelligence, interactive computing systems, immersive virtual and merged reality devices, autonomous robots and unmanned aerial vehicles.
As an adjunct and guest professor, Dr. Bhowmik has advised graduate research and taught courses on computer vision and display technologies at the Liquid Crystal Institute of the Kent State University, Stanford University, University of California, Berkeley, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar. He has over 100 publications including two books and over 100 granted and pending patents.
Dr. Bhowmik was elected Fellow of the Society for Information Display (SID) in 2016. He received the Industrial Distinguished Leader Award from the Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association (APSIPA) in 2016. He serves on the executive committee and board of directors for SID, and is an associate editor for the Journal of SID. He is on the board of directors for OpenCV, the organization behind the open source computer vision library.
Research
Department Colloquium Series
EECS Department Colloquium Series Archive
Berkeley EECS Annual Research Symposium (BEARS) Archive
View
Open Faculty Positions