URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/93
News Archive - Page 93 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 19, 2018
Michael Jordan explains why the AI revolution hasn’t happened  yet
In an Op-Ed piece for Medium, CS and Statistics Prof. Michael Jordan examines the limits of AI and argues for the creation of an engineering discipline encompassing data science, intelligent infrastructure (II), and intelligence augmentation (IA).   Principles of analysis and design must be applied when building planetary-scale inference-and-decision-making systems…
April 18, 2018
James Demmel and Eric Brewer elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
EECS Chair Prof. James Demmel (Ph.D. ’83) and CS Prof. Emeritus Eric Brewer (B.S. ’89) have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The academy is one of the oldest learned societies in the United States and serves the nation as a champion of scholarship, civil dialogue…
April 17, 2018
Michael Laskey talks DART in Robohub podcast
EECS graduate student Michael Laskey (advisor: Ken Goldberg) is interviewed by Audrow Nash for a Robohub podcast titled “DART: Noise injection for robust imitation learning.”  Laskey works in the AUTOLAB where he develops new algorithms for Deep Learning of robust robot control policies and examines how to reliably apply recent…
April 17, 2018
Lea Kissner leads Google’s internal privacy strike force
EECS alumna Lea Kissner (B.S. ’02) is the subject of a Gizmodo article describing her visit to a class at Berkeley this week where she discussed her job as a Principal Engineer at Google leading the security and privacy teams for infrastructure and social products.  One team of 90 employees…
April 17, 2018
Allan Jabri named 2018 Soros Fellow
CS graduate student Allan Jabri has been named a 2018 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellow.   Soros Fellowships are awarded to outstanding immigrants and children of immigrants from across the globe who are pursuing graduate school in the United States.  Recipients are chosen for their potential to make significant contributions to…
April 16, 2018
Linda Huang publishes award-winning book of short stories
EECS instructional system administrator Linda Huang (who publishes under the name Yang Huang) has just released her second book, a collection of short stories titled “My Old Faithful: Stories” (University of Massachusetts Press).   The ten interconnected stories, which take place in China and the United States over a thirty-year…
April 16, 2018
Berkeley boosts female computing grads
Assistant Teaching Prof. John DeNero and CS major Tammy Nguyen are featured in a Mercury News article titled “Forget tech’s bad bros: Stanford, Berkeley boost female computing grads.”   Between 2010 and 2017, UC Berkeley doubled the percentage of women receiving degrees in CS, from 11% to 22%, which runs…
April 12, 2018
Stephen Tu wins Google Fellowship
EE graduate student Stephen Tu (advisor: Ben Recht) has been awarded a 2018 Google Fellowship.  Google Fellowships are presented to exemplary PhD students in computer science and related areas to acknowledge contributions to their chosen fields and provide funding for their education and research. Tu’s current research interests “lie somewhere…
April 10, 2018
Making computer animation more agile, acrobatic — and realistic
Graduate student Xue Bin “Jason” Peng (advisors Pieter Abbeel and Sergey Levine) has made a major advance in realistic computer animation using deep reinforcement learning to recreate natural motions, even for acrobatic feats like break dancing and martial arts. The simulated characters can also respond naturally to changes in the…
April 10, 2018
Atomically thin light emitting device opens the possibility for ‘invisible’ displays
Prof. Ali Javey,  postdoc Der-Hsien Lien, and graduate students Matin Amani and Sujay Desai have built a bright-light emitting device that is millimeters wide and fully transparent when turned off.  The light emitting material in this device is a monolayer semiconductor, which is just three atoms thick.  It opens the…
« Previous  Page
1
…
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions