URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/category/research/page/24
Research Archives - Page 24 of 90 - EECS at Berkeley
Research
October 20, 2021
CDSS and Cal Performances present: “Place and Displacement: Bias in Our Algorithms and Society”
The Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) is excited to announce an upcoming event in collaboration with Cal Performances. On October 28, “Place and Displacement: Bias in Our Algorithms and Society” will feature Cal Artist-in-Residence Angélique Kidjo in conversation with CDSS Associate Provost Jennifer Chayes, EECS Assistant Professor…
October 14, 2021
Zichao Ye presents PELS Ph.D. Thesis Talk
EECS graduate student Zichao Ye (advisor: Robert Pilawa-Podgurski) is among five winners selected by the IEEE Power Electronics Society (PELS) to showcase their Ph.D. projects to the global power electronics community.  Ye’s thesis, titled “Hybrid Switched-Capacitor Power Converters: Fundamental Limits and Design Techniques,” focuses on a topological effort to drastically improve the…
October 13, 2021
Ruzena Bajcsy wins PAMI Azriel Rosenfeld Lifetime Achievement Award
EECS Prof. Emerita Ruzena Bajcsy has won the PAMI Azriel Rosenfeld Lifetime Achievement Award.  This award is presented biennially by the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee for Pattern Analysis and Machine Learning (TCPAMI) to honor outstanding “researchers in Computer Vision who have made major contributions to the field over their…
October 13, 2021
Stewart Russell selected as 2021 BBC Reith Lecturer
CS Prof. Stewart Russell has been selected as the 2021 BBC Reith Lecturer.  Considered among the most prestigious lecture series across all fields, Reith Lectures are delivered annually by leading authorites invited by the BBC “to advance public understanding and debate about significant issues of contemporary interest.”   Russell will deliver…
October 11, 2021
Tsu-Jae King Liu wins 2021 IEEE EDS Education Award
EECS Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu has been selected to receive the…
October 4, 2021
Yang You wins IEEE CS TCHPC Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel) has won the IEEE Computer Society Technical Consortium on High Performance Computing (TCHPC) Early Career Researcher Award for Excellence in High Performance Computing.  The focus of his research is efficient deep learning on distributed systems. He is known for developing the industry benchmark…
October 1, 2021
Sumit Gulwani wins Max Planck-Humboldt Medal
Sumit Gulwani (Ph.D. ’05, advisor: George Necula), now a Partner Research Manager at Microsoft Research in Redmond, Washington, has been selected to receive the 2021 Max Planck-Humboldt Medal for “automatic programming and computational education.”  Gulwani, who won the ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation award and the MSR Ph.d. Fellowship while at Berkeley,…
September 30, 2021
Kathy Yelick named UC Berkeley’s new vice chancellor for research
CS Prof. Katherine Yelick has been named UC Berkeley’s next vice chancellor for research.  She will take over the role from EECS Prof. Randy Katz on January 1, 2022.  Yelick is an expert in the field of parallel computing and currently serves as executive associate dean in the Division of…
September 24, 2021
Sagnik Bhattacharya and Jay Shenoy named 2022 Siebel Scholars
Graduate students Sagnik Bhattacharya (B.A. CS and Statistics ’21) and Jay Shenoy (B.A. CS ’21) are recipients of the 2022 Siebel Scholars award.  The Siebel Scholars program annually recognizes “exceptional students from the world’s leading graduate schools of business, computer science, and bioengineering.”  Bhattacharya, a 5th Year Masters student and…
September 17, 2021
“The Tale of a Success” with Ali Ghodsi
CS Prof. Ali Ghodsi will be the inaugural speaker for “The Tale of a Success” entrepreneurship series, hosted by the Iranian Students of California (ISC) in collaboration with the Berkeley Iranian Students Association in America (ISAA).  Ghodsi is a co-founder and the CEO of enterprise software company Databricks, a start-up…
« Previous  Page
1
…
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
…
90
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions