URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/42
News Archive - Page 42 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 23, 2021
Ranade, Shrivastava, Monga, Yang, Rampure and Shen win Extraordinary Teaching in Extraordinary Times Awards
EECS alumna and Assistant Teaching Prof. Gireeja Ranade (M.S. ’09/Ph.D. ’14, advisor: Anant Sahai), and Graduate Student Instructors (GSIs) Ritika Shrivastava, Jay Monga, Maxson Yang, Suraj Rampure and Allen Shen have won UC Berkeley Extraordinary Teaching in Extraordinary Times awards.  They are among 59 people from of pool of over…
April 21, 2021
Tiny wireless implant detects oxygen deep within the body
CS Prof. and Chan Zuckerberg Biohub investigator Michel Maharbiz is the senior author of a paper in Nature Biotechnology titled “Monitoring deep-tissue oxygenation with a millimeter-scale ultrasonic implant,” which describes a tiny wireless implant that can provide real-time measurements of tissue oxygen levels deep underneath the skin. The device, which…
April 20, 2021
Yang You makes Forbes 30 Under 30 2021 Asia for Healthcare and Science
EECS alumnus Yang You (Ph.D. ’20, advisor: James Demmel) has been named in the Forbes 30 Under 30 2021 Asia list for Healthcare and Science.  Yang, who is now a Presidential Young Professor of Computer Science at the National University of Singapore, studies Machine Learning, Parallel/Distributed Algorithms, and High-Performance Computing. The…
April 19, 2021
Leslie Field to participate in “Reflections on Arctic Ice” webinar
EE alumna Leslie Field (M.S. ’88/Ph.D. ’91, advisor: Richard White), who is the founder and CTO of the Arctic Ice Project and an adjunct lecturer at Sanford, will be a co-panelist in a webinar titled “Reflections on Arctic Ice: A special webinar with Dr. Peter Wadhams.”  Wadhams, a professor emeritus…
April 19, 2021
Rediet Abebe co-chairing ACM Conference on Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, & Optimization
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe is co-chairing the inaugural ACM Conference on Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms, and Optimization (EAAMO ’21) in October 2021.  This conference will highlight work where techniques from algorithms, optimization, and mechanism design, along with insights from other disciplines, can help improve equity and…
April 15, 2021
Andreea Bobu named 2021 Apple Scholar in AI/ML
EECS graduate student Andreea Bobu (advisor: Anca Dragan) has been named a 2021 Apple Scholar in AI and Machine Learning (AI/ML).  The scholarship was created by Apple to “celebrate the contributions of students pursuing cutting-edge fundamental and applied machine learning research worldwide.”  Bobu’s research interests lie at the intersection of…
April 6, 2021
Wenshuo Guo wins 2021 Google PhD Fellowship
EECS graduate student Wenshuo Guo (advisor: Michael I. Jordan) has won a 2021 Google PhD Fellowship in Algorithms, Optimization and Markets.  This award acknowledges and supports exemplary PhD students in computer science and related fields who are making contributions to their areas of specialty.   Guo studies robustness guarantees in algorithms…
April 6, 2021
Michael Jordan explains why today’s AI systems aren’t actually intelligent
CS Prof. Michael I. Jordan is the subject of an IEEE Spectrum article which describes his life, research, and philosophy.  A computer science pioneer, Jordan blended CS, statistics, and applied mathematics, to help transform unsupervised machine learning into a powerful algorithmic tool for solving problems in fields like natural language…
April 5, 2021
Rediet Abebe tackles inequality through algorithms
CS Assistant Prof. Rediet Abebe is the subject of a profile in Quanta Magazine which describes how she uses the tools of theoretical computer science to understand pressing social problems — and try to fix them.   Abebe, who is from Ethiopia, earned a B.A. in mathematics from Harvard, attended a…
April 1, 2021
Joe Hellerstein named Datanami 2021 Person to Watch
CS Prof. Joseph Hellerstein has been named a Datanami 2021 Person to Watch.  Hellerstein is the chief strategy officer and one of the co-founders  a Trifacta, a company which markets data preparation and interaction technology based on Data Wrangler, a data transformation and discovery tool he developed in the RISELab…
« Previous  Page
1
…
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions