URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/84
News Archive - Page 84 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
August 14, 2018
K. Shankari warns that Google is tracking you
CS graduate student K.Shankari (advisors: Randy Katz and David Culler) is featured in an AP News article titled “AP Exclusive: Google tracks your movements, like it or not.”  Shankari, who studies the commuting patterns of volunteers in order to help urban planners,  noticed that her Android phone prompted her…
August 10, 2018
Explore UC Berkeley’s culture of entrepreneurship with Hriday Kemburu
CS alumnus Hriday Kemburu (B.A. ’16) is featured in a Daily Cal article about UC Berkeley’s start up ecosystem titled “‘Dream, build and start up’: Exploring UC Berkeley’s culture of entrepreneurship.’   Kemburu is the CEO of Wildfire,  which began as a UC Berkeley-specific safety app during Kemburu’s senior year…
August 10, 2018
Some EECS contributions to the history of Berkeley’s scientific endeavors
Some of the achievements of members of the EECS department are highlighted in a Daily Cal article titled “From cyclotrons to wetsuits: A brief history of UC Berkeley’s scientific endeavors. The article covers  Unix, which was developed by EE alumnus Kenneth Thompson (B.S.‘65/M.S.‘66) in 1969, and RISC, a project…
August 7, 2018
Hanzhong (Ayden) Ye builds VR sharing platform
CS alumnus Hanzhong (Ayden) Ye (M.S. ’12, advisor: Björn Hartmann) is profiled in an ejinsight article titled “Former Silicon Valley executives build VR version of YouTube.”  In 2016, Ye gave up his lucrative job with Sierra Ventures in Silicon Valley to establish VeeR VR, a Virtual Reality content sharing platform in…
August 6, 2018
Stuart Russell shares his favorite algorithms
CS Prof. Stuart Russell is one of four top experts asked by The Next Web (TNW) “which algorithms they think made the biggest contribution to artificial intelligence and science in general?”  Russell chose Lookahead and Backchaining, which he described as “fundamental modes of decision making.”  Other experts chose Gradient Descent, Convolutional…
August 6, 2018
Ken Okuhara named new CTO of Stockton
EECS alumnus Ken Okuhara (B.S. ’84) is the new chief technology officer for the city of Stockton, California.  Okuhara started his IT career with the state in 2000, specializing in project management, and served various roles with the state Department of Education, the Office of Technology Services, and the California Department…
August 6, 2018
Blockchain’s Energy Web Foundation names Hervé Touati as first CEO
CS alumnus Hervé Touati (Ph.D. ’90, advisor: Robert Brayton) has been named the first CEO of the Energy Web Foundation (EWF), a global nonprofit focused on “unleashing blockchain’s potential to accelerate the transition to a decentralized, democratized, decarbonized, and resilient energy system.”  EWF, the world’s largest energy blockchain consortium (with…
August 6, 2018
Joe Hellerstein on the must-haves of a modern data prep platform
CS Prof. Joseph Hellerstein is the subject of a feature in InsideBigData titled “The Must-Haves of a Modern Data Prep Platform.”  Hellerstein is the co-founder and Chief Strategy Officer at Trifacta, a company that develops data wrangling software for data exploration and self-service data preparation for analysis.  he discusses how…
August 2, 2018
Jun-Yan Zhu wins ACM SIGGRAPH Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award
CS alumnus Jun-Yan Zhu (Ph.D. ’17, advisor: Alexei Efros)…
August 2, 2018
Constantinos Daskalakis wins Rolf Nevanlinna Prize
CS alumnus Constantinos Daskalakis (Ph.D. ’08, advisor: Christos Papadimitriou) has won the Rolf Nevanlinna Prize at the International Congress of Mathematicians, one of the highest awards in theoretical computer science.  Daskalakis, who is currently a professor at MIT,  was cited for his work on game theory and machine learning.  He is…
« Previous  Page
1
…
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions