URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/54
News Archive - Page 54 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
May 7, 2020
EECS researchers discover ferroelectricity at the atomic scale
A team of researchers led by EE Prof. Sayeef Salahuddin and his graduate student, Suraj Cheema, have managed to grow an ultra-thin material on silicon that can power tiny electronic devices at the atomic scale.  Prior to this fundamental breakthrough, the thinnest conventional material that could demonstrate stable ferroelectricity was…
May 6, 2020
David Patterson featured in inaugural episode of ACM ByteCast podcast
CS Prof. Emeritus David Patterson is featured in the inaugural episode of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) ByteCast podcast series, released today.  The episode also features John Hennessy who, along with Patterson, won the ACM A.M. Turing Award in 2017 for their breakthrough work in RISC microprocessor architecture.  During…
May 5, 2020
Andrea Goldsmith named dean of engineering at Princeton University
EECS alumna Andrea Goldsmith (B.A. ’86/M.S. ’91/Ph.D. ’94, advisor: Pravin Varaiya), who was named Berkeley EE Distinguished Alumna in 2018, has been named dean of Princeton University’s School of Engineering and Applied Science.  Goldsmith has been a professor of electrical engineering at Stanford since 1999 and is a leader in the fields of…
May 4, 2020
Courtney Brousseau has passed away
Alumnus Courtney Brousseau (B.A. CS/Econ ’19) has died after  being injured as a bystander in a drive-by shooting in the Mission District of San Francisco.  Brousseau was an active member of the Berkeley community while a student, serving as a CS tutor and acting as chair of the ASUC Student…
May 4, 2020
Chenming Hu took transistors into the third dimension to save Moore’s Law
EECS Prof. and alumnus Chenming Hu (M.S. ’70/Ph.D. ’73) is the subject of an IEEE Spectrum article titled “The father of FinFets: Chenming Hu took transistors into the third dimension to save Moore’s Law” (Volume: 57 , Issue: 5 , May 2020).    Hu devised a way around a limitation in semiconductor design that…
May 4, 2020
Daniel Fremont wins ACM SIGBED Dissertation Award
Freshly-graduate CS Ph.D. student Daniel J. Fremont (advisor: Sanjit Seshia) has won the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Embedded Systems (SIGBED) Paul Caspi Memorial Dissertation Award for his thesis on “Algorithmic Improvisation.”  The award, which was established in 2013, recognizes outstanding doctoral dissertations that significantly advance the state of…
April 28, 2020
Ruzena Bajcsy wins 2020 NCWIT Pioneer in Tech Award
EECS Prof. Ruzena Bajcsy has won the 2020 NCWIT Pioneer in Tech Award which “recognizes technical women whose lifetime contributions have significantly impacted the landscape of technological innovation, amplifying the importance of capitalizing on the diverse perspectives that girls and women can bring to the table. ”   Bajcsy pioneered a…
April 21, 2020
Hany Farid is fighting back against coronavirus misinformation
CS Prof. Hany Farid is launching a major survey of people in the United States and Western Europe to determine how far COVID-19 misinformation has penetrated the population. Using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk survey software, he and his research team hope to interview thousands of people in an effort to better…
April 16, 2020
Low-cost, readily deployable respirators could help frontline healthcare workers
EECS Associate Profs. Prabal Dutta and Robert Pilawa-Podgurski have embarked on a project with doctors at UCSF to develop cost-effective powered air-purified respirators (PAPR) that will offer greater protection for healthcare workers from the coronavirus during higher risk medical procedures.  They are using an approach originally proposed to them by…
April 16, 2020
Enabling robots to learn from past experiences
EECS Prof. Pieter Abbeel and Assistant Prof. Sergey Levine are developing algorithms that enable robots to learn from past experiences — and even from other robots.  They use deep reinforcement learning to bring robots past a crucial threshold in demonstrating human-like intelligence: the ability to independently solve problems and master…
« Previous  Page
1
…
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions