URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/92
News Archive - Page 92 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
May 1, 2018
Umesh Vazirani and Sanjeev Arora elected to the National Academy of Sciences
Prof. and alumnus Umesh Vazirani (Ph.D. ’86) and alumnus Sanjeev Arora (Ph.D. ’94) have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS).  Membership is awarded in recognition of distinguished and continuing achievements in original scientific research.  Vazirani is the Roger A. Strauch Professor of EECS and the co-director of…
April 27, 2018
Alex Bayen wins 2018 IEEE TCCPS Mid-Career Award
Prof. Alexandre Bayen has won the 2018 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems (TC-CPS) Mid-Career Award.  This award recognizes a mid-career researcher from either academia or industry who has demonstrated outstanding contributions to the field of cyber-physical system (CPS) in his/her career development. CPS…
April 26, 2018
Jitendra Malik wins IJCAI-18 Award for Research Excellence
Prof. Jitendra Malik has won the 2018 Award for Research Excellence from the International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization (IJCAI).  The Research Excellence award is given to a scientist who has carried out a program of research of consistently high quality throughout an entire career yielding several substantial results.
April 26, 2018
How David Chaum’s eCash Spawned a Cypherpunk Dream
Alumnus David Chaum (Ph.D. CS/Business Administration ’82) is the subject of a Bitcoin Magazine article titled “The Genesis Files: How David Chaum’s eCash Spawned a Cypherpunk Dream.” Before most people had heard of the internet, and most homes had personal computers, Chaum was concerned with the future of online privacy. …
April 26, 2018
A feasible way for devices to send data with light
Researchers, including Prof. Vladimir Stojanović, have developed a method to fabricate silicon chips that can communicate with light and are no more expensive than current chip technology.  Stojanovic initially led the project into a new microchip technology capable of optically transferring data which could solve a severe bottleneck in current devices…
April 25, 2018
Dave Patterson’s idea was “going to destroy the computing industry”
Prof. David Patterson is interviewed in the podcast Recode Decode for an episode titled “Meet John Hennessy and Dave Patterson, Silicon Valley’s first disruptors.”  He and Hennessy won the 2018 Turing Award–the computer science equivalent of the Nobel Prize–in recognition of their development of RISC, a more efficient computer processor…
April 23, 2018
Hany Farid leaves Dartmouth for Berkeley
CS Prof. Hany Farid is leaving Dartmouth, where he taught for 20 years, to take up a faculty position in the EECS department.  Farid specializes in digital forensics and image analysis. Some of his most well-known projects have applied computer science to test whether images have been doctored, using his…
April 23, 2018
HäirIÖ: Human Hair as Interactive Material
CS Prof. Eric Paulos and his graduate students in the Hybrid Ecologies Lab, Sarah Sterman, Molly Nicholas, and Christine Dierk, have created a prototype of a wearable color- and shape-changing braid called HäirIÖ.  The hair extension is built from a custom circuit, an Arduino Nano, an Adafruit Bluetooth board, shape memory alloy,…
April 19, 2018
Introducing the new L&S Data Science Major
A new Data Science major in the College of Letters and Science has been approved, effective Fall 2018. This is part of Berkeley’s active engagement with the burgeoning field of data science, which has the potential to shape numerous fields of study and practice.  The major is designed to equip students…
April 19, 2018
Andrea Goldsmith named ACM Athena Lecturer
2018 EE Distinguished Alumna Andrea Goldsmith (B.A. ’86/M.S. ’91/Ph.D. ’94) has been named the 2018-19 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Athena Lecturer for contributions to the theory and practice of adaptive wireless communications, and for the successful transfer of research to commercial technology.  Goldsmith, who is currently the Stephen Harris…
« Previous  Page
1
…
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions