URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/research_area/artificial-intelligence-ai/page/3
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Archives - Page 3 of 5 - EECS at Berkeley
Research Area: Artificial Intelligence (AI)
February 12, 2025
20 UC Berkeley alumni, students and faculty shine on Forbes 30 Under 30 list
EECS alumni named in Forbes 30 Under 30 list.
January 30, 2025
NBC News: Ion Stoica on DeepSeek
EECS Professor Ion Stoica discusses DeepSeek with Gadi Schwartz on NBC News NOW.
January 29, 2025
Using AI, these robots learn complicated skills with startling accuracy
At UC Berkeley, researchers in Sergey Levine’s Robotic AI and Learning Lab eyed a table where a tower of 39 Jenga blocks stood perfectly stacked. Then a white-and-black robot, its single limb doubled over like a hunched-over giraffe, zoomed toward the tower, brandishing a black leather whip. Through what might have…
January 22, 2025
Stuart Russell wins AAAI Award for Artificial Intelligence for the Benefit of Humanity
EECS Professor Stuart Russell has been awarded the AAAI Award for Artificial Intelligence for the Benefit of Humanity. The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Award for the Benefit of Humanity recognizes AI advancements that have a positive, lasting impact on human life—protecting, enhancing, and improving humanity in…
January 17, 2025
Ion Stoica featured on Sequoia Capital’s Training Data podcast
EECS Professor and Databricks co-founder Ion Stoica is featured on Sequoia Capital’s Training Data podcast.
January 14, 2025
Ken Goldberg featured on Armchair Expert
EECS Professor Ken Goldberg is featured as a guest on Armchair Expert. “Ken joins the Armchair Expert to discuss being born in Nigeria, growing up in rough and tumble City of Brotherly Love, and on how that taught him how to not take things lying down. Ken and Dax address…
November 4, 2024
Physical Intelligence, a Robot A.I. Specialist, Raises Millions From Bezos
Physical Intelligence, an artificial intelligence startup co-founded by EECS Associate Professor Sergey Levine, announced it had raised $400 million in financing from major investors. The company aims to develop foundational software designed to be compatible with any robot, moving away from the traditional method of creating software tailored to specific…
October 18, 2024
The Pipeline: How Russian propaganda reaches and influences the U.S.
Hany Farid, a professor of digital forensics at the University of California, Berkeley, identified evidence of AI manipulation in a handful of recent Storm-1516 videos, including one from July of a man posing as a luxury car salesman to falsely claim to have sold Zelenska a…
October 9, 2024
Faculty in computational biology and neuroscience win notable NIH award
EECS Assistant Professor Preeya Khana is one of two UC Berkeley computational biology and neuroscience scholars who received the New Innovator Award from the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the agency announced.
October 3, 2024
Watch a UC Berkeley digital forensics expert break down political deepfakes
Every day someone asks Hany Farid, a UC Berkeley professor of electrical engineering and computer science and in the School of Information, to review images, audio and videos to determine if they are real or fake. As one of the world’s…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions