URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/outside-minors
Special Case Outside Minors - EECS at Berkeley
Special Case Outside Minors
In general the outside minor is fulfilled when students meet the following criteria:
a minimum of 6 semester units
the courses must be taken for a letter grade
cumulative grade point average in the outside minor must be at least 3.0
at least one course must be a graduate level course
only upper division undergraduate courses (100-196) and graduate level courses (200 – 296) are eligible
only one course can be cross-listed with the EECS department
the outside minor program must have an orientation different from the major program and inside minor
There are additional special criteria for students interested in pursuing an outside minor in Statistics or Teaching.
More details of the outside minor can be found in the  Graduate Handbook .
Statistics (outside) minor
(updated October 2017)
Please be advised that a minor consisting solely of Stat 201A (formerly Stat 200A) and Stat 243 is not considered acceptable. Students in areas of EECS with a strong background in probability such as CS theory or EE systems are recommended to take 2 graduate courses   other than   Stat 201A and 243, as they may find these courses insufficiently advanced for their purposes.
Restricted courses for Statistics minor:
Stat201A (formerly Stat200A)
Stat243
EE226A is not officially cross-listed but, due to course content, may be considered as cross-listed with Statistics.
The Teaching (outside) minor
The Teaching Minor is intended for those with a strong interest in education, teaching pedagogy, or future faculty positions. Following are the requirements:
A 3-unit course surveying research in issues relating to computer science education. Examples include the following:
Education 170, 203, 224A, 224C, 225C, and 295B
Information 216 and 247
Experimental courses such as those offered as Education 290 or Information 290 may also be appropriate for this requirement. Contact the Faculty Advisor for GSIs for further information.
CS 302, “Designing CS Education” (3 units). In a semester-long project, participants invent and refine a number of homework and exam activities, review relevant educational research, and evaluate alternatives for texts, administrative policies, and uses of technology.
A total of 40 hours of GSI appointments. (20 hours of work per week is equivalent to a 50% GSI appointment for a semester.) At least a 20-hr/wk appointment or two 10-hr/wk appointments in lower-division courses and at least a 20-hr/wk appointment or two 10-hr/wk appointments in upper-division or graduate courses that include discussion sections. The lower-division GSI appointment must include at least a 10-hr/wk appointment in one of the large lecture sections.
Students must enroll in the CS399 section corresponding with their GSI appointments for a total of at least 4 units. This represents 40 hours of GSI appointments required for the Teaching Minor. A 10-hr/wk appointment requires 1 unit of CS399. A 20-hr/wk appointment requires 2 units of CS399.
Students interested in the teaching minor may also be eligible for additional certificate programs, including:
Digital Pedagogy Fellow  certificate, from the  Center for Teaching and Learning : Certifies that the earner has received and put into practice basic pedagogy around planning and organizing a course with a strong online component, such as designing the “W” version of a campus course or designing a MOOC or online/self-paced module.
Certificate in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education , from the  GSI Resource Center .
View
Open Faculty Positions