URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/118
News Archive - Page 118 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
April 5, 2017
Denis Yip named CEO of Digital China Holdings Limited
Alumnus Denis Shing Fai Yip (B.S. ’90/M.S. ’91) has been named Chief Executive Officer of Digital China Holdings Limited.  He will focus on integrating big data and cloud computing technologies into the company’s global industrial system.  Mr. Yip has been involved with information management, software, and global sales and services…
April 5, 2017
Meet Ray, the Real-Time Machine-Learning Replacement for Spark
CS Prof. Michael Jordan, graduate students Philipp Moritz and Robert Nishihara, and research in the RISELab are featured in a Datanami article titled “Meet Ray, the Real-Time Machine-Learning Replacement for Spark.”  Ray is one of the first technologies to emerge from RISELab, the successor to AMPLab and its host…
April 5, 2017
BiasBusters at the Community Grants Showcase
BiasBusters @ Cal EECS will make a presentation at this year’s Community Grants Showcase:  Changing Social Norms on April 19, 2017.  BiasBusters @ Cal EECS focuses on engaging EECS faculty, staff, and students to shift culture and increase the inclusion of women and underrepresented minorities in our community.   The…
April 5, 2017
The Beauty & Joy of Computing featured in the New York Times
Dr. Daniel Garcia and his course “CS10: The Beauty and Joy of Computing” (BJC) are featured in a New York Times article about curricula designed to develop computational thinking in students.  The article, titled “Learning to Think Like a Computer,” covers strategies at a number of top institutions and…
April 4, 2017
Paper authored by EECS alumni receives 2017 NSDI Test-of-Time Award.
The paper “X-Trace: A Pervasive Network Tracing Framework”, authored by EECS alumi Rodrigo Fonseca (Ph.D. ’08) and George Porter (Ph.D. ’08) and Professors Randy Katz, Scott Shenker, and Ion Stoica, has received the 2017 Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI) Test-of-Time Award. X-Trace was…
April 4, 2017
Charles Bordenave awarded the Prix Marc Yor by the SMAI, France
Charles Bordenave, an EECS/Statistics postdoc (Sept. 06-07) has been awarded thePrix Marc Yor by the Société de Mathématiques Appliquées et Industrielles (SMAI) of France. Charles Bordenave was an EECS/Statistics postdoc co-supervised by Prof. Venkatachalam Anantharam (EECS) and Prof. David Aldous (Statistics) and is currently with the French National…
April 4, 2017
Radhika Mittal and Sam Chiu-Wai Wong win 2017 Google PhD Fellowships
Graduate students Radhika Mittal (advisors: …
March 29, 2017
Valerie Taylor named Director of Argonne National Lab’s Math & CS Division
Alumna Valerie Taylor (EE M.S. ’86/Ph.D. ’91) has been appointed the next director of the Mathematics and Computer Science (MCS) division at the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Argonne National Laboratory.  Taylor has received numerous awards for distinguished research and leadership and authored or co-authored more than 100 papers in…
March 24, 2017
Tsu-Jae King Liu talks chip efficiency on Moore’s Law Panel
EE Prof. Tsu-Jae King Liu, who participated in a semiconductor “Moore’s Law” panel discussion at the South by Southwest festival in Texas, is featured in an Electronic Design article  titled “Forget Scaling. Moore’s Law Panel Talks Power Consumption.”  Tsu-Jae, who helped pioneer the Finfet transistor in 1998, describes some…
March 23, 2017
Matthias Vallentin and Vern Paxson take a “VAST” Step Forward in Cyber Security
Postdoctoral researcher Matthias Vallentin is developing VAST,  a  forensic analysis tool  designed to help prioritize the investigation of computer security breaches.  It complements Bro, a security tool  devised by Prof. Vern Paxson when he was a graduate student 22 years ago and which is now used worldwide, to instantly collect huge volumes…
« Previous  Page
1
…
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions