URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/news/page/29
News Archive - Page 29 of 140 - EECS at Berkeley
News
June 13, 2022
Pravin Varaiya has died
EECS Prof. Emeritus and alumnus Pravin Varaiya (Ph.D. 1966, advisor: Lotfi Zadeh) passed away on June 10th from injuries sustained when a truck hit him as he was walking in his neighborhood on April 1.  He was 81 years old.  A Professor in the Graduate School at the time of his…
June 9, 2022
Divya Periyakoil named Bloomberg Fellow
EECS alumna and former Regents Chancellor’s Scholar Divya Periyakoil (B.S. 2020) has won a Bloomberg Fellowship from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Bloomberg fellows are awarded full scholarships to pursue a Master or Doctor of Public Health at Johns Hopkins to tackle one of five critical health…
June 6, 2022
Rod Bayliss and Vivek Nair win 2022 Hertz Fellowships
EECS graduate students Roderick Bayliss III (advisor: Robert Pilawa-Podgurski) and Vivek Nair (advisor: Dawn Song) have been selected to receive 2022 Hertz Fellowships.  One of the most prestigious awards of its kind, Hertz Fellowships support PhD students whose research show “the greatest potential to tackle society’s most urgent problems.” Bayliss…
June 3, 2022
BAIR Climate Initiative creates partnerships to fight climate change
Berkeley Artificial Intelligence researchers are joining forces with climate experts, government agencies, and industry, as part of the new Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) Climate Initiative, a multi-disciplinary student-led hub dedicated to fighting climate change.  The effort is being led by co-founding director CS Prof. Trevor Darrel and organized by three…
June 3, 2022
Pratul Srinivasan and Benjamin Mildenhall jointly awarded honorable mention for 2021 ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award
Two of EECS Prof. Ren Ng’s former graduate students, Pratul Srinivasan and Benjamin Mildenhall, jointly received an honorable mention for the 2021 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Doctoral Dissertation Award.  This award is presented annually to the “author(s) of the best doctoral dissertation(s) in computer science and engineering.”  Srinivasan and…
June 3, 2022
Stuart Russell wins the IJCAI-22 Award for Research Excellence
CS Prof. Stuart Russell has won the International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence  (IJCAI) 2022 Award for Research Excellence.  This award is one of the IJCAI’s highest honors and recognizes “a scientist who has carried out a program of research of consistently high quality throughout an entire career yielding several…
May 27, 2022
Jennifer Chayes to be awarded honorary doctorate from Bard College
CS Prof. Jennifer Chayes, the Associate Provost of the Division of Computing, Data Science (CDSS) and the Dean of the School of Information, will be awarded an honorary doctorate from Bard College in New York on May 28th.   Chayes is known for her work on phase transitions in discrete mathematics and computer…
May 25, 2022
New Sky Computing Lab aims to revolutionize the cloud industry
Sky Computing Lab, the latest 5-year collaborative research lab launched out of Berkeley EECS, aims to build a new backbone for interconnected cloud computing, a milestone that would revolutionize the industry. The lab will leverage distributed systems, programming languages, security, and machine learning to decouple the services that companies want…
May 23, 2022
EECS faculty applaud graduates’ resilience
EECS Assistant Prof. Nika Haghtalab and CS Assistant Prof. and Associate Prof. in the School of Information, David Bamman, are quoted in a Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) article about the resiliency and determination of the 2022 graduating class, particularly during the pandemic. “This generation of students has persevered,…
May 16, 2022
Shiekh Zia Uddin wins 2022 MRS Graduate Student Gold Award
EECS graduate student Shiekh Zia Uddin (advisor: Ali Javey) has won a Materials Research Society (MRS) 2022 Graduate Student Gold Award.  These awards recognize “students of exceptional ability who show promise for significant future achievement in materials research.”  Uddin works in the areas of photophysics and optoelectronics of low dimensional…
« Previous  Page
1
…
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
…
140
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions