URL: https://eecs.berkeley.edu/department/eecs/page/4
EECS Archives - Page 4 of 21 - EECS at Berkeley
Department: EECS
August 11, 2025
Forbes: Why This Billionaire Berkeley Professor Won’t Leave The Classroom
“This computer science professor became a billionaire launching four startups out of his privately-funded research lab, including unicorns Databricks and Anyscale. But it’s never been just about business.”
August 7, 2025
Op-ed: Congress wants to cut the smartest investment taxpayers ever made
CS Professor Emeritus David Patterson highlights the critical need for increased research funding in a new op-ed published in The Hill, ahead of Congress’s vote on the NSF budget.
July 31, 2025
Berkeley computer science researchers propose evidence-based AI policy recommendations
Jennifer Chayes, Ion Stoica, Dawn Song, and Emma Pierson are co-authors on the article “Advancing science- and evidence-based AI policy” by Rishi Bommasani et al, published by the journal Science on July 31. The article proposes policy mechanisms to address the opportunities and challenges of “increasingly powerful AI.”…
July 29, 2025
RISC-V’s Ascent Could Reshape The Global Compute Landscape
RISC-V was born in 2010 at UC Berkeley, designed as a clean-slate, royalty-free ISA optimized for modern workloads and extensibility. Its founding team—still active in steering the standard through RISC-V International (RVI)—envisioned an open hardware ecosystem that encouraged innovation across both academia and industry.
July 24, 2025
Qinghua Ding wins IEEE Jack Keil Wolf ISIT Student Paper Award
EECS Ph.D. student Qinghua Ding has been awarded the 2025 Jack Keil Wolf ISIT Student Paper Award at the IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT). This prestigious award recognizes outstanding student-authored papers presented at ISIT, one of the premier conferences in information theory. Ding was selected for the paper,…
July 21, 2025
Four EECS Faculty win inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards
EECS Assistant Professors Natacha Crooks, Sagar Karandikar, Amy Pavel, and Rishabh Iyer have been selected to receive inaugural Google ML and Systems Junior Faculty Awards. This prestigious award recognizes early-career faculty whose research is advancing the frontiers of machine learning and systems. Each award includes $100,000 in unrestricted research funding.
July 18, 2025
Alvin Cheung receives ACSIC Rock Star Award
CS Professor Alvin Cheung has been awarded the Rock Star Award for Mid-Career Investigators by the Association of Chinese Scholars in Computing (ACSIC). This prestigious award recognizes individuals who have made outstanding contributions to computing within 12 years of completing their most recent computing-related degree. The ACSIC Rock Star Award…
July 14, 2025
Jennifer Chayes recognized with 2025 Richard Tapia Award for efforts to diversify computing
Jennifer Chayes, EECS Professor and Dean of the College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS) at UC Berkeley, has been named the recipient of the 2025 Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science, and Diversifying Computing.
July 10, 2025
Jan Rabaey receives 2026 IEEE Donald O. Pederson Award in Solid-State Circuits
EECS Professor Emeritus Jan Rabaey has been selected to receive the 2026 IEEE Donald O. Pederson Award in Solid-State Circuits. This prestigious award recognizes his outstanding contributions to the field of solid-state circuits, as measured by his impact on society, innovation, and leadership in the field. Rabaey was cited “for…
July 8, 2025
EECS researchers win MLArchSys Best Paper Award
EECS Professors Alvin Cheung and Sophia Shao, and their students Charles Hong and Sahil Batia, have won the Best Paper Award at the Machine Learning for Computer Architecture and Systems (MLArchSys) Workshop, held at ISCA 2025. Their award-winning paper, titled “Autocomp: LLM-Driven Code Optimization for Tensor Accelerators”, presents a novel…
« Previous  Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
21
Next  Page  »
View
Open Faculty Positions