URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~benh
Benjamin Hindman
Benjamin Hindman
Ph.D. Student
I'm a Computer Science Ph.D. student at  UC Berkeley  where I have the
privilege of working with  George Necula  and  Krste Asanović . My
interests include programming languages, operating systems,
distributed systems, and all they ways they intersect.
Most days I work in the  Par Lab  on mechanisms to
enable efficient parallel computation. More recently I work in the  RAD Lab  on mechanisms to
enable efficient distributed computation. It turns out there are a lot
of similarities. I get all of my work done thanks to an  NSF Graduate
Research Fellowship .
Before coming to UC Berkeley I spent four wonderful years studying
computer science at the University of Washington where I worked with
Dan Grossman . I
have also had the pleasure of working with (and learning from)  Yuan Yu ,
Shaz
Qadeer , and  Robert
Griesemer  over the past few years.
If I'm not hacking gleefully in my lab, you can probably find me skiing somewhere near Lake Tahoe.
Currently I'm spending lots of time on  Nexus, A Common Substrate for Cluster Computing .
Publications
Composing Parallel Software Efficiently with Lithe.
Heidi Pan, Benjamin Hindman, and Krste Asanović.
ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI'10), Toronto, Ontario, Canada. June 2010.
PDF
A Common Substrate for Cluster Computing.
Benjamin Hindman, Andy Konwinski, Matei Zaharia, and Ion Stoica.
USENIX Workshop on Hot Topics in Cloud Computing (HotCloud'09), San Diego, CA. June 2009.
PDF
Lithe: Enabling Efficient Composition of Parallel Libraries.
Heidi Pan, Benjamin Hindman, and Krste Asanović.
USENIX Workshop on Hot Topics in Parallelism (HotPar'09), Berkeley, CA. March 2009.
PDF
Atomicity via Source-to-Source Translation.
Benjamin Hindman and Dan Grossman.
ACM SIGPLAN Workshop on Memory Systems Performance and Correctness (MSPC'06), San Jose, CA, October 2006.
PDF
Presentations
Enabling Software Composability for the Manycore Era.
Microsoft Research Silicon Valley Campus, Mountain View, CA
March 2009
View Slides
Strong Atomicity without Virtual-Machine Support.
Microsoft Research Asia, Beijing, PRC
August 2006
View Slides
Software
Check out  libprocess , a library that provides
an actor style message-passing programming model (for C++ and Python
for now).
Teaching
CS 162 Discussion Section Jan. 27, 2010
CS 162 Discussion Section Feb. 3, 2010
CS 162 Discussion Section Feb. 9, 2010
CS 162 Discussion Section Feb. 24, 2010