URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~anca/AHRI.html
CS 287H: Algorithmic Human-Robot Interaction
CS 287H: Algorithmic HRI
Welcome to CS 287H Algorithmic Foundations of Human-Robot (and Human-AI) Interaction, Spring 2023!
Instructor:   Anca Dragan  (anca at berkeley
dot
edu)
GSI:   Cassidy Laidlaw  (cassidy_laidlaw at
berkeley dot edu)
Lectures:  TuTh, 2-3:30pm,  Soda 310
Description
As robot autonomy advances, it becomes more and more important to
develop algorithms that are not solely functional, but also mindful
of the end-user. How should the robot move differently when it's moving
in the presence of a human? How should it learn from user feedback?
How should it assist the user in accomplishing day to day tasks? These
are the questions we will investigate in this course.
We will contrast existing algorithms in robotics
with studies in human-robot interaction, discussing how
to tackle interaction challenges in an algorithmic way,
with the goal of enabling generalization across robots and tasks. We will also
sharpen research skills: giving good talks, experimental design,
statistical analysis, and literature surveys.
Format
This course combines lectures with paper presentations
by the students, encouraging both fundamental knowledge
acquisition as well as open-ended discussions. Each student
will also carry out an individual research project OR
an in-depth literature survey.
Learning Objectives
At the end of this course,
you will have gained both knowledge/abilities related
to human-robot interaction, as well as to research and presentation skills:
Human-robot interaction abilities
articulate the challenges of developing algorithms that support HRI
apply optimization techniques to generate motion for HRI
contrast and relate model-based and model-free learning from demonstration
apply Bayesian inference and learning techniques to enhance coordination in collaborative tasks
develop a basic understanding of verbal and non-verbal communication
ground algorithmic HRI in the relevant psychology background
Research skills
communicate scientific content to a peer audience
analyze and diagram the literature related to a particular topic
critique a scientific paper's experimental design and analysis
Prerequisites
There are no official prerequisites but a knowledge of probability and multivariate
calculus is expected.
Grading
Student Presentations (30%):  Each student will get the opportunity
to present. You will be
graded based on your level of insight into the material (including how well you answer questions from us
and the rest of the class), how well you relate the paper to other papers and lecture material, as well as
how
well you present the material to the class and lead a discussionn . There will be 2 presenters for each
paper. We will have 2-3 papers per lecture.
Quizzes (15%):  We will have a set of (pandemic update: take-home) quizzes (10 min each),
to test the
understanding
of the material. These quizzes are not meant to be
onerous, but are meant to ensure that you read carefully through the papers and revisit the lecture notes.
They are graded with a check, a minus, or a plus for particularly good answers.
Homework (15%):  New this year, responding to feedback from previous years, we will
develop a few (2-3)
homework assignments. We will grade these lightly, and mainly take the opportunity to get feedback from you
and refine them.
Final Project (30%):  You have a choice between a research project, and an in-depth
literature survey (~50 relevant papers, organized by different features, identifying gaps in the state of
the art). You will have a final presentation, and submit a proposal along the way (1 page) and a report (up
to 5 pages) at the end.
Participation (10%):  Be engaged! Ask and answer questions!
Important fine print:  Despite these percentages, you will not pass this class if
you don't submit a
proposal and a final report for your project, if you don't present your final project, or if you don't show
up
for class regularly (even if your computed final score is above passing).
Expectations
You can expect me to start and end class on time, devise quizzes that adequately cover
the material,
and grade your quizzes and send you feedback on your presentations in a timely manner.
In turn, I can expect you to come to class (pandemic update: Zoom) on time, be attentive and engaged in class,
and refrain from using laptops (pandemic update: using laptops to do other tasks outside of attending
lecture), cell phones and other electronic devices during class.
Please take notes, and ask questions when something is not clear.
I also expect you to spend an adequate amount of time on the readings each week (~3 hours),
and spend ~60 hours on your final project.
Important Dates
April 4:   1 Page Proposal
(by this time you should have a clear idea of what you want to do and what your key insight is in the case
of a project,
and how you will select and classify papers in the case of a literature survey);
Please discuss project ideas with the GSI and also feel free to email Anca.
April 25 & 27:  Final Presentations
May 9:  Final Reports (ideally start gearing up for a paper submission)
Project Proposal Instructions
They should be 1 page (+ references).
If you are doing a research project:
motivate the problem
briefly describe how state of the art tackles it and what is missing
state your key insight clearly
scope your project to be what you would do for 1 paper; you don't have to have all results for the
project, you can have just preliminary result at the end of the semester, but choose a problem that is not
trivial and not an entire PhD thesis either
If you are doing a literature survey:
describe the topic
describe how you will find papers -- what proceedings will you search, what keywords on google scholar,
what starting papers;
what are the inclusion criteria -- how are you going to decide whether to include a paper or not
provide 5-10 initial papers
provide the groups/axes/independent variables you want to use to categorize the field
Possible venues for projects
Conference Papers: NeurIPS, CoRL, WAFR, ICRA, HRI, RSS
Short Papers: HRI Late Breaking Report
Schedule
Find a tentative schedule below.  This is subject to change.
#
Date
Topic
Reading
Notes
1
Jan 17
What is Algorithmic HRI?
none
slides
Part 1: How to optimize cost/reward
2
Jan 19
Trajectory Optimization 1 – Lecture
3
Jan 24
Trajectory Optimization 2 – Lecture
presentations guide
example 1
example 2
4
Jan 26
Trajectory Optimization 3 – Lecture
all trajopt notes
5
Jan 31
Traj Opt in robotics – Papers
"Elastic Bands: Connecting Path Planning and Control" (1993)  link
ILQR  link
6
Feb 2
Traj Opt in HRI – Papers
"Planning human-aware motions using a sampling-based costmap planner" (2011)
link
“Spacetime constraints” (jumping Luxo lamp) (1988)  link
7
Feb 7
Intro to MDPs, RL, POMDPs, Games – Lecture
Part 2: What cost/reward to optimize
8
Feb 9
Inverse Reinforcement Learning – Lecture
Further reading:
"Maximum Margin Planning" (2006)  link
"Maximum Entropy IRL" (2010)  link
"Bayesian IRL" (2007)  link
IRL notes
9
Feb 14
Learning rewards from human input – Lecture
Further reading:
“Reward rational implicit choice”  link
"Learning robot objectives from physical human interaction.  link
"Preferences implicit in the state of the world.  link
RRiC notes
10
Feb 16
Imitation Learning (aka skip the reward middleman) – Lecture
Further reading:
"Learning Attractor Landscapes for Learning Motor Primitives" (2003)  link
"Movement Primitives via Optimization" (2015)  link
Imitation notes
11
Feb 21
How babies learn from human behavior – Papers
“Understanding the intentions of others” (1995)  link
2 short papers:
"Rational Imitation in Preverbal Infants" (2002)  link
and as background to explain it: "Infant Imitation After a 1-Week Delay" (1988)  link
12
Feb 23
Learning from feedback – Papers
"Deep Reinforcement Learning
from Human Preferences"  link
"Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback"  link
Further reading:
Active
"Preference-Based Learning of Reward Functions"  link
"Learning
Human Objectives by Evaluating Hypothetical Behavior"  link
"Batch Active
Preference-Based Learning for Reward Functions"  link
13
Feb 28
Learning in HRI – Papers
"Trajectories and Keyframes for Kinesthetic Teaching" (2012)  link
"Designing Robot Learners that Ask Good Questions" (2012)  link
Further reading:
"Using Perspective Taking to Learn from Ambiguous Demonstrations"
(2006)  link
Part 3: Collaboration, assistance, and coordination
14
March 2
Designing intent expression - Papers
"Anticipation in Robot Motion" (2011)  link
"Improving Robot Readability" (2011)  link
Further reading:
"Communication of Intent in Assistive Free Flyers" (2014)
link
15
March 7
Online intent inference and expression – Lecture
Further reading
"Planning Based Prediction for Pedestrians" (2009)  link
"Goal Inference as Invese Planning" (2007)  link
"Obsessed with Goals" (2007)  link
"Legibility and predictability of robot motion" (2013)  link
Intent notes
16
March 9
MPDs/POMDPs to avoid/assist with rational/imitative models – Lecture
Further reading:
"CrossTraining" (2013)  link
"Other play"  link
Avoid/collab/assist notes
17
March 14
MDPs+avoid/collaborate – Papers
"Socially Compliant Navigation via IRL"  link
"Predicting Human Reaching Motion" (2015)  link
18
March 16
POMDPs+avoid/collaborate - Papers
"Shared Autonomy via Hidsight Optimization" (2015)  link
"Intention-Aware Motion Planning" (2013)  link
19
March 21
RL to collaborate - Papers
Human-aware RL  link
Off belief learning  link
Part 4: Experiment design
20
March 23
Experiment Design 1 – Lecture
21
March 28
Spring Break
22
March 30
Spring Break
23
April 4
Experiment Design 2 – Lecture
"Evaluating Fluency in Human-Robot Collaboration" (2013)  link
Part 5: The frontier of AHRI
24
April 6
HRI as a Game – Lecture
25
April 11
HRI as a Game – Papers
Cooperative IRL (2016)  link
Influence-aware planning (2016)  link
Further reading:
ILQgame  link
26
April 13
Human models beyond imitation and noisy-rationality  – Lecture
Further reading:
Human biases and reward inference  link
The Boltzmann policy distribution  link
27
April 18
Human models – Papers
How children come to understand false beliefs (2018)  link
Where do you think you’re going (2018)  link
Further reading:
Assisted Perception (2020)  link
28
April 20
Human models – Papers 2
Modeling human-like gameplay (2022)  link
Evolving negotiation agents (2022)  link
29
April 25
Presentations 1
30
April 27
Presentations 2
For more readings, check out a few other class websites (this is by no means a comprehensive list):
Cooperative Machines (MIT)
Human-Robot
Interaction (GaTech)
Human-Robot Interaction
(UW)
Manipulation Algorithms
(CMU)