URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~bartlett/courses/281b-sp08/readings.html
CS 281B / Stat 241B Spring 2008 Readings
CS 281B / Stat 241B, Spring 2008:
Statistical Learning Theory
Readings
This page contains pointers to a collection of optional readings,
in case you wish to delve further into the topics covered in lectures.
Probabilistic formulation of prediction problems
The following text books describe probabilistic formulations of
prediction problems:
`An Introduction to Computational Learning Theory,'
Michael J. Kearns and Umesh V. Vazirani,
MIT Press, 1994.
`A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition,'
L. Devroye, L. Gyorfi, G. Lugosi,
Springer, New York, 1996.
`Statistical learning theory,'
Vladimir N. Vapnik,
Wiley, 1998.
`Neural network learning: Theoretical foundations,'
Martin Anthony and Peter L. Bartlett,
Cambridge University Press, 1999.
`The elements of statistical learning: data mining, inference, and
prediction,'
Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani and Jerome Friedman,
Springer, 2001.
See also the following review papers.
`Pattern classification and learning theory.'
G. Lugosi
`Learning Pattern Classification---A Survey.'
S. Kulkarni, G. Lugosi, and S. Venkatesh
`Introduction to statistical learning theory'
Olivier Bousquet, Stephane Boucheron, and Gabor Lugosi.
Kernel Methods
Perceptron Algorithm
The argument giving the minimax lower bound for linear
threshold functions is similar to the proof of the main
result in the following paper.
`A General Lower Bound on the Number of Examples Needed for Learning.'
A. Ehrenfeucht, D. Haussler, M. Kearns and L. Valiant.
The following are old (1987 and 1990) revisions of older (1969
and 1965, respectively) books
on linear threshold functions, the perceptron algorithm, and the
perceptron convergence theorem.
Perceptrons: An Introduction to Computational Geometry
Marvin L. Minsky, Seymour A. Papert,
MIT Press, 1987.
The Mathematical Foundations of Learning Machines,
Nilsson, N.,
San Francisco: Morgan Kaufmann, 1990.
The upper bound on risk for the perceptron algorithm that we saw
in lectures follows from
the perceptron convergence theorem and results converting mistake
bounded algorithms to average risk bounds.
The following paper reviews these results.
Large margin classification using the perceptron algorithm.
Yoav Freund and Robert E. Schapire.
Kernel Methods, Support Vector Machines
The following two survey papers give nice overviews of
kernel methods.
(Note that Section 2 in both papers provides some worthwhile intuition,
but the theorems are only superficially related to kernel methods.)
`An introduction to kernel-based learning algorithms.'
K.-R. Mueller, S. Mika, G. Raetsch, K. Tsuda, and B. Schoelkopf.
`A Tutorial on Support Vector Machines for Pattern Recognition.'
C. J. C. Burges.
The following paper introduces the soft margin SVM.
`Support Vector Networks.'
Corinna Cortes and Vladimir Vapnik.
A Tutorial on Support Vector Regression.'
A. J. Smola and B. Schoelkopf.
See also the text books:
`An Introduction to Support Vector Machines.'
Nello Cristianini and John Shawe-Taylor.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 2000.
(see the  web page )
`Kernel Methods for Pattern Analysis.'
John Shawe-Taylor and Nello Cristianini.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 2004.
(see the  web page )
`Learning with Kernels.'
Bernhard Schoelkopf and Alex Smola.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 2002.
(see the  web page )
The following text book gives a good treatment of
constrained optimization problems and Lagrangian duality
(see Chapter 5). It is available on the web.
`Convex Optimization.'
Stephen Boyd and Lieven Vandenberghe.
The following papers describe a geometric view of
SVM optimization problems.
`A fast iterative nearest point algorithm for support vector
machine classifier design.'
S.S. Keerthi, S.K. Shevade, C. Bhattacharyya and K.R.K. Murthy.
`Duality and Geometry in SVM Classifiers.'
Kristin P. Bennett and Erin J. Bredensteiner.
`A Geometric Interpretation of nu-SVM Classifiers.'
D.J. Crisp and C.J.C. Burges
The following papers present relationships between convex cost
functions and discrete loss (for two-class pattern classification).
The first paper generalizes and simplifies results of the second.
The third paper considers more general decision-theoretic problems,
including weighted classification, regression, quantile estimation
and density estimation.
`Convexity, classification, and risk bounds.'
Peter Bartlett, Mike Jordan and Jon McAuliffe.
`Statistical behavior and consistency of classification methods based
on convex risk minimization.'
Tong Zhang.
`How to compare different loss functions and their risks.'
Ingo Steinwart.
These papers investigate the RKHS of Gaussian kernels.
`Consistency and convergence rates of one-class SVM and related
algorithms.'  (See Section 3.)
R. Vert and J.-P. Vert.
`An Explicit Description of the Reproducing Kernel Hilbert
Spaces of Gaussian RBF Kernels .'
I. Steinwart, D. Hush, and C. Scovel.
The following papers describe kernels defined on structures, such as
sequences and trees. The first describes a number of operations that
can be used in constructing kernels.
`Convolution Kernels on discrete structures'
D. Haussler
`Dynamic alignment kernels'
C. Watkins
`Convolution kernels for natural language'
Michael Collins and Nigel Duffy.
`Text classification using string kernels'
H. Lodhi, C. Saunders, J. Sahwe-Taylor, N. Cristianini, and C. Watkins
The following paper gives a good overview of kernels for sequences.
`Kernel methods in genomics and computational biology'
J.-P. Vert
A kernelized version of PCA.
`Nonlinear component analysis as a kernel eigenvalue problem.'
B. Schoelkopf, A. Smola, K.-R. Mueller.
Some more detail on the gaussian process viewpoint.
`Prediction with Gaussian Processes: From Linear Regression to Linear
Prediction and Beyond.'
C. K. I. Williams.
Ensemble Methods
The original bagging and boosting papers.
`Bagging predictors'
Leo Breiman.
`A decision-theoretic generalization of on-line learning
and an application to boosting.'
Yoav Freund and Robert E. Schapire.
`Experiments with a new boosting algorithm.'
Yoav Freund and Robert E. Schapire.
This paper contains the
result in lectures about the relationship between the existence of
weak learners and the existence of a large margin convex combination.
It also contains bounds on the misclassification probability of a
large margin classifier.
`Boosting the margin: A new explanation for the
effectiveness of voting methods.'
Robert E. Schapire, Yoav Freund, Peter Bartlett and Wee Sun Lee.
A nice survey of boosting.
`The boosting approach to machine learning: An overview.' .'
Robert E. Schapire.
Two other views of boosting algorithms.
`Arcing classifiers.'
Leo Breiman.
`Additive logistic regression: a statistical view of boosting.'
Jerome Friedman, Trevor Hastie and Robert Tibshirani.
An extension of AdaBoost to real-valued base classifiers.
`Improved boosting algorithms using confidence-rated predictions'
R. E. Schapire and Y. Singer.
Four papers analyzing the convergence of various boosting algorithms.
The third and fourth give sufficient conditions for the classifier
returned by AdaBoost (stopped early) to converge to the Bayes decision
rule.
` Boosting with early stopping: Convergence and Consistency.'
T. Zhang and B. Yu.
`Some Theory for Generalized Boosting Algorithms.'
P. J. Bickel, Y. Ritov and A. Zakai.
`Process consistency for AdaBoost.'
W. Jiang.
`AdaBoost is Consistent.'
P. L. Bartlett and M. Traskin.
Risk Bounds and Uniform Convergence
The following paper surveys some concentration inequalities.
`Concentration-of-measure inequalities.'
Gabor Lugosi.
Some review papers on Rademacher averages and local Rademacher averages:
` A few notes on Statistical Learning Theory.'
Shahar Mendelson
`New Approaches to Statistical Learning Theory.'
Olivier Bousquet.
Some properties of Rademacher averages:
`Rademacher and Gaussian complexities:
risk bounds and structural results'
P. L. Bartlett and S. Mendelson.
Rademacher averages for large margin classifiers:
`Empirical margin distributions and bounding the generalization error
of combined classifiers.'
Vladimir Koltchinskii and Dmitriy Panchenko.
The `finite lemma' (Rademacher averages of finite sets) is Lemma 5.2
in this paper, which also introduces local Rademacher averages.
`Some applications of concentration inequalities to statistics.'
Pascal Massart.
The growth function, VC-dimension, and pseudodimension
are described in the following text (see chapter 3).
Estimates of these quantities for parameterized
function classes is covered in chapters 7 and 8.
`Neural
network learning: Theoretical foundations.'
Martin Anthony and Peter Bartlett. Cambridge University Press. 1999.
Model Selection, universal consistency
The following papers describe the model selection problem and
penalization methods for model selection.
`Risk bounds for model selection via penalisation.' .
Andrew Barron, Lucien Birge and Pascal Massart.
`An experimental and theoretical comparison of model selection
methods.'
M. Kearns, Y. Mansour, A. Ng, and D. Ron
`Model
selection and error estimation.'
P.  L. Bartlett, S. Boucheron, and G. Lugosi.
`Some applications of concentration inequalities to statistics.'
Pascal Massart.
A collection of papers that use risk bounds together with a suitable
approximation property to prove universal consistency.
`A consistent strategy for boosting algorithms.'
Gabor Lugosi and Nicolas Vayatis.
`On the rate of convergence of regularized boosting methods.'
G. Blanchard, G. Lugosi and N. Vayatis.
`The
consistency of greedy algorithms for classification.'
Shie Mannor, Ron Meir, Tong Zhang.
`Consistency of support vector machines and other regularized kernel
classifiers.'
I. Steinwart.
`Fast Rates for Support Vector Machines using Gaussian Kernels.'
I. Steinwart and C. Scovel.
`Concentration
inequalities and model selection.'
Pascal Massart.
Online learning
Early papers on prediction of individual sequences:
`Aggregating strategies.'
V. Vovk.
`How to use expert advice.'
N. Cesa-Bianchi, Y. Freund, D.P. Helmbold, D. Haussler, R. Schapire,
and M.K. Warmuth.
`On prediction of individual sequences'
N. Cesa-Bianchi and G. Lugosi
See also the text book:
Prediction, learning, and games.
N. Cesa-Bianchi and G. Lugosi.
Cambridge University Press, 2006.
The following paper introduced the online convex optimization
formulation that we examined in lectures.
`Online convex programming and generalized
infinitesimal gradient ascent.'
M. Zinkevich.
With strongly convex functions, logarithmic regret is possible.
`Logarithmic regret algorithms for online convex optimization'
E. Hazan, A. Agarwal, and S. Kale.
And the optimal regret can still be obtained, even
if the adversary chooses not to play flat functions.
`Adaptive Online Gradient Descent.'
P. Bartlett, E. Hazan, A. Rakhlin.
NIPS 2007.
`Optimal Strategies and Minimax Lower Bounds for Online Convex
Games.'
J. Abernethy, P. Bartlett, A. Rakhlin and A.Tewari.
(COLT 2008, to appear.)
The results on online linear bandit problems are from this paper.
`Competing in the Dark: An Efficient Algorithm for Bandit Linear
Optimization.'
J. Abernethy, E. Hazan, A. Rakhlin.
(COLT 2008, to appear.)
Follow the perturbed leader was described in the following paper:
`Efficient Algorithms for On-line Optimization'
Adam Tauman Kalai and Santosh Vempala.
(Journal of Computer and System Sciences 71(3): 291-307, 2005.)
The following paper gives
some results on the relationship between prediction in adversarial and
probabilistic settings.
`On the generalization ability of on-line learning algorithms.'
N. Cesa-Bianchi, A. Conconi, and C. Gentile.
Online portfolio optimization
A probabilistic formulation of portfolio optimization, featuring the
tradeoff between mean and variance of returns.
`Portfolio Selection.'
Harry Markowitz.
(The Journal of Finance: 7(1):77-91, 1952.)
The following paper considered betting with side information, and showed that
maximizing expected log wealth leads to maximal
growth rate and that this growth rate is the channel capacity.
`A new interpretation of information rate'
J. L. Kelly, Jr.. (J. Oper. Res. Soc.  57:975-985, 1956.)
The following papers showed that the log-optimal strategy has the optimal growth
rate, the first for discrete-valued i.i.d. returns and the second for
arbitrary random returns.
`Optimal gambling systems for favorable games'
Leo Breiman.
(in Proc. Fourth Berkeley Symp. Math. Statist. Probab.  1: 60-77,
Univ.  California Press, 1960.)
`Asymptotic Optimality and Asymptotic Equipartition Properties
of Log-Optimum Investment'
Paul H. Algoet and Thomas M. Cover.
(The Annals of Probability, 16(2):876-898, 1988.)
The following paper introduced the universal portfolio strategy, and
proved that it is competitive with constantly rebalanced portfolios.
`Universal Portfolios'
Thomas M. Cover.
(Mathematical Finance 1(1):1-29, 1991.)
The following paper gave a simplified proof that Cover's
universal portfolio is competitive with CRPs.
`Universal Portfolios With and Without Transaction Costs'
Avrim Blum and Adam Kalai.
(Machine Learning 35:193-205, 1999.)
And this paper shows that it can be computed efficiently.
`Efficient algorithms for universal portfolios.'
Adam Kalai and Santosh Vempala.
(Journal of Machine Learning Research 3: 423 - 440. 2002.)
The following papers describe an online convex optimization approach
to portfolio optimization.
`Algorithms for Portfolio Management based on the Newton
Method.'
Amit Agarwal, Elad Hazan, Satyen Kale and Robert E. Schapire.
`Logarithmic Regret Algorithms for Online Convex Optimization.'
Elad Hazan, Amit Agarwal and Satyen Kale.
(Machine Learning, 69(2-3): 169--192. 2007.)
See also Chapters 9 and 10 of the text book:
Prediction, learning, and games.
N. Cesa-Bianchi and G. Lugosi.
Cambridge University Press, 2006.
Back to course home page