URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~alexch/itcs2017-cfp.html
Alessandro Chiesa
ITCS 2017 Call for Papers
The  8th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science (ITCS)  conference will be held in  Berkeley , during  January 9-11 2017 , and will be sponsored by the  Simons Institute .
ITCS seeks to promote research that carries a strong conceptual message (e.g., introducing a new concept or model, opening a new line of inquiry within traditional or interdisciplinary areas, introducing new mathematical techniques and methodologies, or new applications of known techniques). ITCS welcomes all submissions, whether aligned with current theory of computation research directions or deviating from them.
Important dates
Submission deadline:
Notification to authors:
Conference dates:
Thu September 15, 2016
Mon Oct 31, 2016
Mon-Wed Jan 9-11, 2017
Organizers
Alessandro Chiesa, Christos Papadimitriou, Umesh Vazirani (UC Berkeley)
Program committee
TBA
Submission format
Authors must post their paper on an online archive (ECCC, arXiv, or Crypto ePrint), and submit a link to it with their submission. Alternatively, authors can opt to attach a pdf of the paper to their submission.
The authors’ submission must include names and affiliations of the authors, and a  statement (up to 1,000 words)  complementing the paper’s introduction so as to inform the committee members (in a more detailed and free-style way than is usually done in an introduction) about the paper’s significance, innovative nature, key technical ideas, and place within (or outside…) our field’s scope and literature. Think of it as an opportunity to write a favorable referee report about, or a review of, your paper!
Authors should strive to make their paper, and especially their statement, accessible not only to experts in their subarea, but also to the theory community at large.
Unlike many TCS conferences, program committee members are expected to form and communicate to the rest of the committee their own opinion about the papers.
Prior, simultaneous, and subsequent submissions
Results published/presented at another archival conference will not be considered for publication. Simultaneous submission of the same (or very similar or overlapping) paper to ITCS and to another archival conference is not allowed. Simultaneous submission to ITCS and to a journal is allowed. Papers accepted to ITCS should not be submitted to any other archival conferences.
Accepted papers
Papers accepted to the conference must be presented at the conference by one or more of the authors. The exact schedule of presentations, including the time allotted for each presentation (which may vary for different presentations), will be decided based on the pool of accepted papers.
Invited papers
The program committee may invite individuals to present their specific significant recent work at the conference. Submitted papers may be elevated to “invited” status at the discretion of the committee.
Poster session
A poster session may be arranged by the program committee.
Graduating bits
Participants within a couple of years (either way) of PhD graduation will be given 5 minutes to present their results, research, plans, personality, and so on. This is one of the important traditions of ITCS, and a sublime moment every year!
Proceedings
Accepted and invited papers will appear in electronic proceedings.
Submission instructions
Coming soon.