URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~barsky/siggraph.asia.html
Correcting for Optical Aberrations using Multilayer Displays
Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH Asia 2012 ,
Singapore, 28 November - 1 December 2012
ACM Transaction on Graphics ,
Volume 31, Issue 6, November 2012, Article No. 185
Authors
Fu-Chung Huang
Douglas Lanman
Brian A. Barsky
Ramesh Raskar
Abstract
Optical aberrations of the human eye are currently corrected using
eyeglasses, contact lenses, or surgery. We describe a fourth option: modifying
the composition of displayed content such that the perceived image appears in
focus, after passing through an eye with known optical defects. Prior
approaches synthesize pre-filtered images by deconvolving the content by the
point spread function of the aberrated eye. Such methods have not led to
practical applications, due to severely reduced contrast and ringing
artifacts.
We address these limitations by introducing multilayer pre-filtering,
implemented using stacks of semi-transparent, light-emitting layers. By
optimizing the layer positions and the partition of spatial frequencies
between layers, contrast is improved and ringing artifacts
are eliminated. We assess design constraints for multilayer displays;
autostereoscopic light field displays are identified as a preferred, thin form
factor architecture, allowing synthetic layers to be
displaced in response to viewer movement and refractive errors. We assess the
benefits of multilayer pre-filtering versus prior light field pre-distortion
methods, showing pre-filtering works within the constraints of current display
resolutions. We conclude by analyzing benefits and limitations using a
prototype multilayer LCD.
Citation
Fu-Chung Huang, Douglas Lanman, Brian A. Barsky, and Ramesh Raskar.
" Correcting for Optical Aberrations using Multilayer
Displays ",
Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH Asia 2012 ,
Singapore, 28 November - 1 December 2012,
ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) ,
Volume 31, Issue 6, November 2012, Article No. 185.
Download Bibtex
Paper
Click here to download paper
Video
Click here to download video