URL: https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~anca/RSS15-workshop.html
Women in Robotics 2
Women in Robotics 2  (RSS, Rome 2015)
After
Organizers
Program
Home
Welcome to the second  Robotics: Science and Systems 2015  Workshop on Women in Robotics!
Description
This is a  mixed-audience, women-only speakers  workshop with the goals of: (1) raising visibility of women in
robotics by presenting invited talks by women that are leaders in the field, (2) strengthening the community and
providing an opportunity for networking by providing an event dedicated to women in robotics, and (3) fostering
mentorship of junior female researchers via a poster session, a panel, and travel awards.
Call for Papers
We encourage female students, post-docs, and researchers in all areas of robotics to submit an extended abstract describing either new or published work. Authors of accepted abstracts will be invited to present their research in a spotlight talk and a poster session at the workshop.
Important dates:
Deadline for submissions:   April 21st  May 1st, 2015
Notification of acceptance: May 10th, 2015
Workshop: July 16th, 2015
Venue:  The 2015 Robotics: Science and Systems Conference ( http://www.roboticsconference.org/ )
Instructions:  Send your extended abstract (2 pages or less) to  rss15.womeninrobotics@gmail.com . Any format will be accepted. Include a cover page with the following information: author name, affiliation, email, full address, citizenship, 3-5 keywords, applicant's current level of study/career, whether this is the applicant's first conference, whether the applicant is the author of a paper in the RSS 2015 regular conference program.
Travel Support:  We will be able to subsidize travel to Rome for some of the accepted abstracts. NSF has agreed to sponsor 10 travel awards for US Citizens who fly  on a US carrier , and BOSCH will sponsor 3 travel awards for travelers from Europe.
Workshop Format
This full-day workshop will include contributed paper spotlight presentations, invited talks, a poster session,
and panel discussion. We plan to organize four oral sessions, each composed of 5 minute contributed paper
spotlights and a few invited talks. The panel discussion topics under consideration include perspectives
on the academic career path, and advice and experiences in applying, interviewing and negotiating for faculty
positions. The workshop will end with a poster session followed by a dinner, which will provide networking
opportunities for junior female researchers.
Sponsors
We thank NSF and BOSCH for their support!