URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~alspaugh/blog/card-hcic15-keynote-06-29-15.html
Notes on "Theories with a Purpose"
16 July 2015
by S. Alspaugh
Last night  Three weeks ago 1  was the HCIC
opening keynote by Stuart Card. As the theme of  HCIC 2015  was
"theory", his talk was appropriately titled "Theories with a
Purpose". 2
HCIC stands for Human-Computer Interaction Consortium.  It is an
intimate, multi-day, annual conference for the HCI community.
Currently in its 26th year, HCIC was created by researchers who
wanted a venue that emphasized conversation over presentation.  For
many years, HCIC was held in Breckenridge, Colorado, also known for
its high-quality skiing. If you want more of the inside scoop,
you'll have to ask Stu Card.
Stu Card is one of the founding figures of HCI. From
his bio :
Stuart Card may have pursued the first direct program at CMU in
Human-Computer Interaction—a program involving Ph.D.
qualifiers in both psychology and computer science. ...
Card, Moran, and Newell wrote the first
book to use human-computer interaction in its title,
The
Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction .
Card has a marvelous sense of humor and a gift for storytelling
that is enhanced by the fact that, thanks to his long history in
the field, he is loaded with humorous anecdotes that include many
early research icons.
Pretext
Card began his talk by describing some playful banter between himself
and  Judy Olson .
Judy is a highly-respected senior HCI researcher and professor in the
Informatics Department at the University of California, Irvine, and
who also happened to be in attendance.  She recently published a
book entitled
Ways of Knowing in HCI , which describes research
methods in HCI, with each chapter detailing a different approach.
Card had complained to Judy that the chapters of this book were
ordered in a seemingly random way.  He also noted, as is common for
academic books, that it was rather expensive.  So he proposed a
wager. If, in his talk, he could develop a theory from first
principles for better structuring the Table of Contents, then Judy
would give him the book for free.  Judy would be the judge of
whether or not he had succeeded.
On developing a new academic fields
There is a process to defining a new field.  At first, there a
chicken-and-egg problem, as textbooks must be written so that
courses can be taught, but courses must have been taken in order to
know enough to write a textbook. Textbooks are needed for
uniformity among courses at different universities, otherwise it
isn't a field. Lastly, journals need to be created so that
researchers in that field can get tenure.  This was once the case
with HCI too.
Here is a good trick for defining a new field: Define the core of
what the field is about, then define the distance of various topics
from the core, then let what is considered topical "fade out" as
you get further from the core.  This is as opposed to defining what
is in and what is out.  The former approach makes is easier to
absorb new research topics into the field.
The above discussion brings to mind current efforts on Berkeley's campus
to develop a new data science curriculum.
On a theory of artifacts
Card described the basic principles of operation of the
old-fashioned optical mouse.  He segued this into a discussion of
Herbert Simon's ant.  Consider the following line:
What does it describe?  It appears to be a fairly complicated line
that could be difficult to model and simulate.  In fact, the line
it describes the motion of a ant on a beach, whose purpose is to
traverse the beach, but whose path must twist and turn around the
rocks on the beach.
The algorithm it uses to do so is simple: walk down the beach while
avoiding the rocks.  Note that the complexity is not in the
behavior of the ant.  It's in the beach. The apparently complexity
of the ant's behavior is  is actually just a reflection of its
environment. 3
All artifacts have: a purpose (walk down the beach), an inner
environment (walk home while avoiding rocks), and an outer
environment (the beach).
Card then described the inner operation of the laser mouse:
entirely different inner environment, but same purpose.
"This is what I love about computer science and computational
fields. You can do the same work over every twenty years and it's
like a new area. Because everything is faster."
On dominant design
There are four phases of design research:
Antecedent research:  This phase contains the early days of
experimentation.
Pioneering architecture:  This represents first attempt at
breaking systems down into independentally optimizable
subsystems, which people can optimize into even more subsystems.
Pioneering product:  Companies productize different designs
with different architectures. One company wins.
Dominant design:  The design has become locked in and
cannot be changed anymore. 4
According to Card, we are in a new phase of antecedent research
for mobile and immersive interaction technology.
Decomposability into subsystems is very important for being able to optimize a
design. The champions of such decomposition are aircraft designers.
Card then described Herbert Simon's hierarchy:
social
social behavior with a time scale of days to months
rational
problem solving with a time scale of minutes to hours; 5
example theories: information foraging and sensemaking
cognitive
immediate behavior with a time scale of seconds; example
theories: Goals, Operators, Methods, and Selection rules (GOMS), window, and working set
biological
automatic behavior with a time scale: milliseconds; examples: Fitts' law
These are nearly decomposable. In each case we can apply theories to:
Interpret  data (understanding and notation)
Generate  new artifacts
Predict  performance
Unify  with other domains
On theory versus experimentation
Theory trumps experimental results in demonstrating that option A
is better than option B.  Card illustrated this with a story: He
was tasked with presenting to a room of fifty of the most hostile
engineers imaginable about the superiority of the mouse as an input
device. The engineers didn't want to design a mouse for their
system, they wanted to bolt on a keyboard and then bolt on (from
what I understand) a sort of trackball. Card showed them many
strong experimental results 6  demonstrating the superiority of the mouse
for interacting with computers over their preferred systems, but
the hostile engineers thought of a million reasons why the
experiments might be wrong. It wasn't until he explained the
theory, and why the theory shows that the mouse has to be the
right answer, that the engineers went along.
The theory ( Fitts' Law )
says the fastest input device would use the fingers, because these
are the fastest instrument of implementing desired plans of action
as they are conceived of in the brain. Fingers have a throughput of
42 bits per second.  So what if you got even closer to the brain—
via a head mouse, perhaps?  Back when he was at Xerox PARC,  Card
had a colleague who was a great champion of the head mouse.  Card
thought this was not a good idea and that it was unnecessary to
try, because the theory said it wouldn't be better than the mouse.
This is because the arm and wrist that moves the mouse has a
throughput of ten bits per second, but the head mouse is actually
moved by the neck muscles, which only have a throughput of five
bits per second.  But humorously, said colleague persisted, and
ended up walking around for a week with a sore neck. The head mouse
idea was scrapped; the theory was correct.
"When you do theory, it can actually be fun to be wrong if you can
be really definite."
One theory can tell you the best option out of hundreds of options.
This can save you from running hundreds of "expensive" experiments
with ten whole participants and controls for learning effects.
"Experiments tell you the answer to the question you asked, but that is not
what you want to know. You want to know the answer to the question you should
have asked."
The big reveal
In the end, Card linked contemporary research 7  back to early work on the
Model Human Processor and to the GOMS framework, and related these
foundations to contemporary work on sensemaking. 8
Somewhat tounge-in-cheek, he illustrated this with the following
hand-drawn diagram: 9
Returning full circle to the original wager, Card finished up by
using these concepts he to group chapters from
Ways of Knowing in HCI , into subsections:
In the end, Judy graciously acknowledged that he had a good
overview and an interesting perspective. Her definitive verdict was
that he did not have to pay for the book.
In the questions after the talk, someone asked, in Card's opinion,
what is missing from the methods in the book? His answer is that
learning i.e.  probabilistic methods or Bayesian methods need to be
included in the future, given that there seems to be a lot of
evidence that that stuff "just works".
Acknowledgments
Thanks to Stuart Card for his lovely talk and input on this post,
as well as for sending me his slides.
Many thanks to  Elizabeth Churchill
for kindly helping me improve this post.
Footnotes
^
I fell a bit behind in posting this due to a paper deadline.
^
I recently discovered  a video of an identically-titled talk , that Stu gave last November at CMU's
Human-Computer Interaction Institute's 20th anniversary
celebration. Though the high-level topic appears to be the same,
the details of that talk seem to differ substantially from the
one I describe here.
^
This analogy is courtesy of Herbert Simon. I don't know where it
was originally published, but in this  supposed
interview  with Simon from 1997, he elaborates upon the idea.
It may have originally appeared in his book  Administrative
Behavior .
^
My interpretation of this is that here he is talking about
conventions for the design of objects, my views on which are entirely informed
by  The Design of Everyday Things .
^
Where my work sits.
^
Many of the early experiments on the design of the mouse were done by  Bill Moggridge ,
co-founder of famed design firm  IDEO .  IDEO
designed  the first production mouse for Apple .
Moggridge wrote a book,  Designing Interactions ,
about the history of interaction design, which contains interviews
with a number of famous figures including Douglas Engelbart,
Larry Tesler, and Stu Card, among others.
^
Contemporary work that got a shout out in the talk included
Skinput ,
the  Proteus Ingestible Networked Pill , and
ShapeWriter .
^
His book with pioneers Allen Newell and Tom Moran,  The
Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction , details the
beginning of GOMS, which became significantly more elaborate as
others extended it. One of the earliest
experimental successes in HCI were  the NYNEX
experiments , in which researchers used GOMS to predict how
efficient telephone operators at NYNEX (the local
telephone carrier for much of New England and New York state)
would be by using expensive new workstations, versus their
current method.
^
As far as I can tell, it seems to be a habit for papers about
sensemaking and related topics to contain a diagram illustrating
the sensemaking cycle. I vaguely remember drawing one such diagram
at one point to explain some idea I had to my advisor,  Marti Hearst .  She
waved it away saying something to the effect of, "oh, that's just
the same diagram that everyone draws."