URL: https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~alonamid
Alon Amid
Search
Alon Amid
EECS Graduate Student
UC Berkeley
Biography
I am a PhD candidate in the UC Berkeley EECS department, supervised by Borivoje Nikolić and Krste Asanović.
I am affiliated with the  ADEPT  Lab (formerly  ASPIRE ), and the  Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC) .
I'm interested in most parts of the digital computing stack, from circuits to software. I believe that the end of Moore's law and the never-ending demand for additional computing resources require us to solve the interesting challenges of distributed, parallel, and heterogeneous computing in an energy efficient manner. These challenges span across the computing stack from the single-core and single-chip level up to clusters of thousands of many-core heterogeneous machines, and require system-level design.
Specifically, I've been recently focusing on single-chip energy efficient processing of sparse data-parallel applications, hardware-software co-design and profiling of large-scale distributed clusters, and the trade-offs between general purpose data parallel prcessors and custom specialized accelerators for emerging machine learning and data-analytics workloads.
Solving these challenges requires advanced design tools and research methodologies. As such, I am a user of the “Berkeley ecosystem” for agile hardware design developed in the ASPIRE and ADEPT labs. I am also a contributer to the Hurricane/Eagle series of test chips and to the  FireSim  and  Chipyard  projects, each of which allow unique research and simulation capabilities.
I am a supporter of the open-source hardware movement as an innovation catalyst, and I try to contribute to the  RISC-V  ecosystem.
I am active within the UC Berkeley graduate student community, as a delegate to the UC Berkeley  Graduate Assembly (GA) , and as the Co-President and former Treasurer of the Electrical Engineering Graduate Student Association (EEGSA).
Interests
Computer Architecture
Parallel Computing
Energy Efficient Computing
Distributed Systems
Software Systems
Design Methodology and Automation
Education
PhD Candidate in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
University of California, Berkeley
MSc in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, 2019
University of California, Berkeley
BSc in Electrical Engineering, 2016
Technion - Israel Institute of Technology
Recent Publications
Programmable Fine-Grained Power Management and System Analysis of RISC-V Vector Processors in 28-nm FD-SOI
This letter presents a RISC-V System-on-Chip (SoC) with fully integrated switched-capacitor DC–DC converters, adaptive clock …
Colin Schmidt ,  Alon Amid ,  John Wright ,  Ben Keller ,  Howard Mao ,  Keertana Settaluri ,  Jarno Salomaa ,  Jerry Zhao ,  Albert Ou ,  Krste Asanovic ,  Borivoje Nikolic
Preprint
PDF
Chipyard: Integrated Design, Simulation, and Implementation Framework for Custom SoCs
Continued improvement in computing efficiency requires functional specialization of hardware designs. Agile hardware design …
Alon Amid ,  David Biancolin ,  Abraham Gonzalez ,  Daniel Grubb ,  Sagar Karandikar ,  Harrison Liew ,  Albert Magyar ,  Howard Mao ,  Albert Ou ,  Nathan Pemberton ,  Paul Rigge ,  Colin Schmidt ,  John Wright ,  Jerry Zhao ,  Yakun Sophia Shao ,  Krste Asanovic ,  Borivoje Nikolic
Preprint
PDF
FirePerf: FPGA-Accelerated Full-System Hardware/Software Performance Profiling and Co-Design
Achieving high-performance when developing specialized hardware/software systems requires understanding and improving not only core …
Sagar Karandikar ,  Albert Ou ,  Alon Amid ,  Howard Mao ,  Randy Katz ,  Borivoje Nikolic ,  Krste Asanovic
PDF
Co-Design of Deep Neural Nets and Neural Net Accelerators for Embedded Vision Applications
Deep Learning is arguably the most rapidly evolving research area in recent years. As a result, it is not surprising that the design of …
Alon Amid ,  Kiseok Kwon ,  Amir Gholami ,  Bichen Wu ,  Krste Asanovic ,  Kurt Keutzer
PDF
Gemmini: An Agile Systolic Array Generator Enabling Systematic Evaluations of Deep-Learning Architectures
Advances in deep learning and neural networks have resulted in rapid development of hardware accelerators that support them. A large …
Hasan Genc ,  Ameer Haj-Ali ,  Vighnesh Iyer ,  Alon Amid ,  Howard Mao ,  John Wright ,  Colin Schmidt ,  Jerry Zhao ,  Albert Ou ,  Max Banister ,  Yakun Sophia Shao ,  Borivoje Nikolic ,  Ion Stoica ,  Krste Asanovic
PDF
See all publications
Recent & Upcoming Talks
Tutorial on FireSim and Chipyard: End-to-End Architecture Research with RISC-V SoC Generators, Agile Test Chips, and FPGA-Accelerated Simulation on Amazon EC2 F1
Chipyard is a one-stop shop for generating complex RISC-V SoCs, including in-order and out-of-order processors, uncore components, …
Mar 16, 2020 9:00 AM
Lausanne, Switzerland
Tutorial: Chipyard and FireSim: End-to-End Architecture Exploration with RISC-V SoC Generators, FPGA-Accelerated Simulation and Agile Test Chips
This tutorial will introduce the Chipyard and FireSim frameworks for the purposes of full-stack architecture exploration and digital …
Jan 30, 2020 2:00 PM
Western Digital, Milipitas, CA, USA
Chipyard: An Integrated SoC Design, Simulation, and Implementation Environment
Continued improvement in computing efficiency requires functional specialization of hardware designs. Agile design methodologies have …
Jan 13, 2020 4:50 PM
Monterey, CA, USA
Tutorial: Chipyard and FireSim: End-to-End Architecture Exploration with RISC-V SoC Generators, FPGA-Accelerated Simulation and Agile Test Chips
This tutorial will introduce the Chipyard and FireSim frameworks for the purposes of full-stack architecture exploration and digital …
Dec 12, 2019 12:00 AM
San Jose, CA, USA
Tutorial on FireSim and Chipyard: End-to-End Architecture Research with RISC-V SoC Generators, Agile Test Chips, and FPGA-Accelerated Simulation on Amazon EC2 F1
Chipyard is a one-stop shop for generating complex RISC-V SoCs, including in-order and out-of-order processors, uncore components, …
Oct 12, 2019 12:00 AM
Columbus, OH, USA
See all talks
CV
*I spent a summer as a research intern in Microsoft Azure working on accelerating data analytics systems using cloud-hosted FPGAs. I spent another summer interning at Google as a software engineering intern in datacenter platforms.
*I worked as an undergraduate student at Qualcomm Inc. in the the 802.11ad System Team as a PHY ASIC Digital Design Engineer. We made cutting edge Wi-Fi (WiGig) chipsets in the 60 GHz band, leading the world into multi-Gbps Wi-Fi data rates.
*I was an Infosys Instep research intern at Infosys Labs in Bangalore, India. I worked on a research project about “Hybrid Access Control Based Solutions for Cloud Services”.
*Served as an IDF (Israel Defense Forces) officer in an elite intelligence unit.
*If I tell you what I did, I'll have to kill you… but if you insist: I was a system officer, leading a team developing automatic intelligence analysis processes for an operational system. Later, I was a staff officer, responsible for strategic planning, analysis, and product development of technology mega-projects.
*A long time ago (after high school), I was a network administrator in B.M Carmel, and I got to set up the network and ERP system for a new remote site in Vermont.
*A longer time ago, I was a youth guide in Madatech - the Israel National Museum of Science ( I got to meet Neil Armstrong there! )
*High Level Software: Python, Matlab, Bash, SQL, Scala
*Low Level Software: C, C++, RISC-V Assembly
*Hardware Design: Verilog, VHDL, Chisel, Vivado, Synopsys/Cadence EDA tools
*Basic Profficiency: R, Perl, Pascal, Prolog, Visual Basic .NET, Java
I played Trumpet in the Technion Symphony Orchestra, Haifa Youth Wind Orchestra, and the Anderson High School Trojan Marching Band in Austin, TX
English, Hebrew
I am fortunate enough to have called several awesome cities “Home”:
Haifa (Israel), Portland (OR, USA), Austin (TX, USA), Melbourne (VIC, Australia), Berkeley (CA, USA)
You can also download my  full résumé in PDF .
Misc
I love traveling. I've been to over 45 countries across 6 continents, and (hopefully) still going strong. Whether it's mountains, beaches, wildlife, outdoors, urban or historic, I'm always happy to explore new places and new cultures.
Antarctica is still an elusive destination, so if you know of a short-term opportunity in Antarctica, I'll be happy to hear about it.
Here is a sample of my travel map:
My dad got us a family domain a very long time ago (before it was popular). We had a web server in our house. We were also some of the first users of Google Apps (now known as Google G-suite).
The web server no longer exists, but a small commemorative website is still out there:  www.amidfamily.net
I am active in the  Berkeley Hillel  graduate student community. I also consider myself on the frontlines of fighting modern Anti-Semitism and Anti-Zionism on US college campuses, and specifically in UC Berkeley. If you have any questions about that, come and talk to me.
Contact
alonamid@berkeley.edu
Soda Hall 595, ADEPT Lab, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720
Cite
Copy
Download