URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~alberto/cv.html
Alberto L. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli
Home
Biography [ CV ]
Publications [ DBLP ]
Teaching [EECS149]
Research
Students, Postdocs, and Associate Researchers
Campus
Directions
Campus Map
Directions
to Cory and Soda Halls
Schedule of Classes
Curriculum Vitae
Academic Positions and Education
Alberto Sangiovanni Vincentelli holds the Edgar L. and Harold H. Buttner Chair of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley. He has been on the Faculty of the Department since 1976. He obtained an electrical engineering and computer science degree ("Dottore in Ingegneria")  summa cum laude  from the Politecnico di Milano, Milano, Italy in 1971. In 1980-1981, he spent a year as a Visiting Scientist at the Mathematical Sciences Department of the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center. In 1987, he was Visiting Professor at MIT. He has held a number of visiting professor positions at Italian Universities, including Politecnico di Torino, Universita' di Roma, La Sapienza, Universita' di Roma, Tor Vergata, Universita' di Pavia, Universita' di Pisa, Scuola di Sant'Anna. He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Lester Center for Innovation of the Haas School of Business and of the Center for Western European Studies and is a member of the Berkeley Roundtable of the International Economy (BRIE).
He is an author of over 800 papers, 17 books and 2 patents in the area of design tools and methodologies, large scale systems, embedded systems, hybrid systems and innovation.
Industrial Experience
He has co-founded several enterprises in US and Europe. In particular, he was a co-founder of Cadence and Synopsys. Cadence (quoted on NASDAQ, over 1.5Billion USD revenues, 5Billion USD market cap, 305.31M EBITDA) and Synopsys (quoted on NASDAQ, over 2Billion USD, over 6Billion USD market cap, 359.15M EBITDA) are the two leading companies in the area of Electronic Design Automation.
He was the founder and Scientific Director of the Project on Advanced Research on Architectures and Design of Electronic Systems (PARADES), a European Group of Economic Interest located in Rome supported by Cadence, Magneti-Marelli and ST Microelectronics. He was a co-founder of the Advanced Laboratory for Embedded Systems (ALES) that acquired PARADES. In 2013, ALES was acquired by United Technologies Corporation.
Board Participation
Public Companies : He has been a member of the Board of Directors of Cadence since 2001, the Chairman of the Technology Committee, and a member of its Governance and Nominating Committee as well as of its Strategy Committee, and of KPIT-Cummins also known as KPIT Technologies, a high technology Indian Company, with over 300Million USD revenues, where he is a member of the Quality Committee, Governance Committee and of the Strategy Committee.
Privately Held Companies : He is a member of the Board of Directors of Sonics, a privately held company in Silicon Valley, where is the Chairman of the Governance and Nominating Committee and of the Strategy Committee. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Expert Systems, an Italian company that was recently quoted in AIM. He was on the Board of Directors of Gradient Technology, Comsilica (Chairman of the Board), and UPEK (member of Compensation Committee and chairman of the Governance Committee), all Silicon Valley Companies, of Accent (a European company, Chairman of Compensation Committee and member of the Strategy Committee and of the Audit Committee) and of Value Partners (an Italian Company).
Advisory Boards : He had been a member of the ST microelectronics Advisory Board for 10 years. He was a member of the HP Strategic Technology Advisory Board (2005-2007), a member of the Science and Technology Advisory Board of General Motors (2003-2013), and is a member of the Technology Advisory Council of United Technologies Corporation (2005-present), of the Scientific Council of the Tronchetti Provera foundation and of the Snaidero Foundation.
Consulting Activities
He consulted for many US companies including Bell Labs, DEC, IBM, Intel, TI, United Technologies Corporation. He also consulted for European companies (COMAU, Magneti Marelli, Pirelli, BMW, Daimler-Chrysler, ST, Thomson) and Japanese Companies (Fujitsu, Kawasaki Steel, Sony, and Hitachi). Since 2010, he has been the Senior Advisor to the President and CEO of L'Elettronica
Venture Capital and Private Equity Activities
He consulted for Greylock Ventures, Sofinnova and for Singapore Vertex Investment Venture Capital funds. He is a member of the Advisory Board of Walden International, and Innogest Venture Capital funds and a member of the Investment Committee of the VC fund, Atlante Ventures, by Banca Intesa/San Paolo as well as of Fondo Next of Finlombarda.
Since January 2013, he is the President of the Strategic Committee of the Italian Strategic Fund (Fondo Strategico Italiano, a 10 Billion USD Private Equity Fund). He is member of the advisory board of the French PE group Jolt Technology.
Public Authorities
He was an advisor to the Singapore Government for microelectronics and new ventures. He is a member of the High-Level Group, of the Steering Committee, of the Governing Board and of the Public Authorities Board of the EU Artemis Joint Technology Initiative.
He is member of the Scientific Council of the Italian National Science Foundation (CNR). Since February 2010, he has been a member of the Executive Committee of the Italian Institute of Technology.
Since July 2012, he has been named Chairperson of the Comitato Nazionale Garanti per la Ricerca, a seven person committee established by the Ministry of Education, Scientific Research and University of the Italian Government to oversee the evaluation processes for research in Italy.
Honors
Teaching : In 1981, he received the Distinguished Teaching Award of the University of California. He received the worldwide 1995 Graduate Teaching Award of the IEEE (a Technical Field award for "inspirational teaching of graduate students"). In 2002, he was the recipient of the Aristotle Award of the Semiconductor Research Corporation for "outstanding teaching in its broadest sense, emphasizing student advising and teaching during the research project".
Research : He received numerous research awards including the Guillemin-Cauer Award (1982-1983), the Darlington Award (1987-1988) of the IEEE for the best paper bridging theory and applications, and two awards for the best paper published in the IEEE Transactions on CAS and CAD, five best paper awards and one best presentation awards at the Design Automation Conference, and other best paper awards at the Real-Time Systems Symposium, the International Conference on CyberPhysical Systems and the VLSI Conference.
Major Honors
In 2001, he was given the Kaufman Award of the Electronic Design Automation Council for "pioneering contributions to EDA".
In 2008, he was awarded the IEEE/RSE Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Medal "for groundbreaking contributions that have had an exceptional impact on the development of electronics and electrical engineering or related fields" with the following citation: "For pioneering innovation and leadership in electronic design automation that have enabled the design of modern electronics systems and their industrial implementation"
In 2009, he received the first ACM/IEEE A. Richard Newton Technical Impact Award in Electronic Design Automation to honor persons for an outstanding technical contribution within the scope of electronic design automation.
In 2012, he received the Lifetime Achievement Award from EDAA.
He has been a Fellow of the IEEE since 1982 and a Member of the National Academy of Engineering, the highest honor bestowed upon a US engineer, since 1998.
Honorary Degrees
In 2009, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the combined EE and CS departments of the University of Aalborg in Denmark. In 2012, he was given an Honorary Doctorate from KTH in Sweden.
Last
updated 09/27/2014