URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~anca/AHRI-F2016.html
Algorithmic Foundations of Human-Robot Interaction
CS 294-115 Algorithmic Foundations of HRI
Welcome to CS 294-115 Algorithmic Foundations of Human-Robot Interaction, Fall 2016!
* If you are looking for the current offering,  click here .*
Instructor:   Anca Dragan  (anca at berkeley dot edu)
Lectures:  TuThu, 3:30-5:00, Soda 320
Description:
As robot autonomy advances, it becomes more and more important to
develop algorithms that are not solely functional, but also mindful
of the end-user. How should the robot move differently when it's moving
in the presence of a human? How should it learn from user feedback?
How should it assist the user in accomplishing day to day tasks? These
are the questions we will investigate in this course.
We will contrast existing algorithms in robotics
with studies in human-robot interaction, discussing how
to tackle interaction challenges in an algorithmic way,
with the goal of enabling generalization across robots and tasks. We will also
sharpen research skills: giving good talks, experimental design,
statistical analysis, literature surveys.
Format:
This course combines lectures with paper presentations
by the students, encouraging both fundamental knowledge
acquisition as well as open-ended discussions. Each student
will also carry out an individual research project OR
an in-depth literature survey.
Learning objectives:  At the end of this course,
you will have gained both knowledge/abilities related
to human-robot interaction, as well as to research and presentation skills:
[Human-robot interaction abilities]
tease out the intricacies of developing algorithms that support HRI
apply optimization techniques to generate motion for HRI
contrast and relate model-based and model-free learning from demonstration
apply Bayesian inference and learning techniques to enhance coordination in collaborative tasks
develop a basic understanding of verbal and non-verbal communication
ground algorithmic HRI in the relvant psychology background
[Research skills]
communicate scientific content to a peer audience
analyze and diagram the literature related to a particular topic
critique a scientific paper's experimental design and analysis
Prerequisites:  There are no official prerequisites but a knowledge of probability and multivariate calculus is expected.
Grading:
Student Presentations (30%): Each student will get the opportunity
to present multiple times. You will be
graded based on your level of insight into the material (including how well you answer questions from us
and the rest of the class), how well you relate the paper to other papers and lecture material, as well as how
well you present the material to the class. There will be 2 presenters for each paper: a PRO presenter and a CON presenter. We will have 2-3 papers per lecture.
Quizzes (20%): We will have a short (10 min) quiz before each lecture/set of presentations, to test the understanding
of the material. These quizzes are not meant to be
onerous, but are meant to ensure that you read carefully through the papers. They are graded with a check, a minus, or a plus for particularly good answers.
Final Project (35%): You have a choice between a research project, and an in-depth
literature survey (~50 relevant papers, organized by different features, identifying gaps in the state of the art). You will have a final presentation, and submit a proposal along the way (1 page) and a report (up to 5 pages) at the end.
Participation (10%): Be engaged! Ask and answer questions!
Scribing (5%): You will take turns compiling PDFs of lecture notes. The scribe template is  here . Send an email to anca at berkeley dot edu with the tex and pdf.
Important:  Despite these percentages, you will not pass this class if you don't submit a proposal and a final report for your project, if you don't present your final project, or if you don't show up for class regularly (even if your computed final score is above passing).
Expectations:  You can expect me to start and end class on time, devise quizzes that adequately cover the material,
and grade your quizzes and send you feedback on your presentations in a timely manner.
In turn, I can expect you to come to class on time, be attentive and engaged in class,
and refrain from using laptops, cell phones and other electronic devices during class.
Please take notes, and ask questions when something is not clear.
I also expect you to spend an adequate amount of time on the readings each week (at least 3 hours),
and spend 60 hours on your final project.
Important dates:
23 Oct - 1 Page Proposal
(by this time you should have a clear idea of what you want to do and what your key insight is in the case of a project,
and how you will select and classify papers in the case of a literature survey);
Feel free to email me to discuss project ideas! We will also have office hours dedicated to this.
29 Nov and 2 Dec - Final Presentations
14 Dec - Final Reports (start gearing up for a paper submission)
Project Proposal Instructions:
They should be 1 page (+ references).
If you are doing a research project:
motivate the problem
briefly describe how state of the art tackles it and what is missing
state your key insight
scope your project to be what you would do for 1 paper; you don't have to have all results for the project, you can have just preliminary result at the end of the semester, but choose a problem that is not trivial and not a PhD thesis either
If you are doing a literature survey:
describe the topic
describe how you will find papers -- what proceedings will you search, what keywords on google scholar, what starting papers;
what are the inclusion criteria -- how are you going to decide whether to include a paper or not
provide 5-10 initial papers
provide the groups/axes/independent variables you want to use to categorize the field
Possible venues for projects:
Conference Papers: RSS, IROS, Ro-Man
Short Papers: CHI Late Breaking Report, HRI Late Breaking Report
List of topics:  Find a tentative list of topics in a tentative order below. We will add info to this as we go along.
#
Day
Date
Topic
Reading
Scribes
Notes
1
Th
25 Aug
The What, Why, and How of Algorithmic HRI
no mandatory reading
Carolyn C.
notes
[Motion]
2
Tu
Aug 30
Motion Planning 1 (lecture)
no mandatory reading, but read these after Motion Planning is done if interested:
Lozano-Perez "Spatial Planning: A Configuration Space Approach"
Kavraki "Analysis of Probabilistic Roadmaps for Path Planning"
Lavalle "Randomized Kinodynamic Planning"
Hsu "Path Planning in Expansive Configuration Spaces"
Andrea B., Kush B.
notes
3
Th
Sep 1
Motion Planning 2 (lecture)
more on graph search   here
and   here
Chelsea Z., Molly
notes
4
Tu
Sep 6
Motion Planning 3 (lecture)
more on randomzied sampling:
RRT Connect
(Epsilon,Alpha,Beta)-Expansiveness
constraints
Daniel S., Xinlei P.
notes
5
Th
Sep 8
Trajectory Optimization 1 (lecture)
no mandatory reading, read this at the end of Trajectory Optimization:
Zucker "CHOMP: Covariant Hamiltonian Optimization for Motion Planning"
Esther R., Matt M.
notes
6
Tu
Sep 13
Trajectory Optimization 2 (lecture)
no reading
Huazhe H, Xinyu L
notes
7
Th
Sep 15
Trajectory Optimization 3 (lecture)
no reading
Daniel F, Davis F
notes
8
Tu
Sep 20
Optimal Motion Algorithms (papers)
"Elastic Bands: Connecting Path Planning and Control" (1993)  pdf  [Pro-Gil;Con-Thanard]
"Finding Locally Optima, Collision Free Trajectories with Sequentional Qadratic Programming" (2014)  pdf [Pro-Abhishek; Con-Chelsea]
9
Th
Sept 22
Optimal Motion in HRI (papers)
"Planning human-aware motions using a sampling-based costmap planner" (2011)  link [Pro-Samantha; Con- Allan]
"Generating Human-Like Motion for Robots" (2013)  pdf [Pro-Glen; Con-Caleb]
[Tools of HRI]
10
Tu
Sept 27
Experimental Design (lecture)
no reading
Thanard, Jonathan S
notes
11
Th
Sept 29
Experimental Design Ctd. (lecture)
no reading
Smitha, Jeremey
notes
12
Tu
Oct 4
Experimental Design Ctd (lecture)
no reading
Chandrayee, Wenxuan
notes
[Learning from Demonstration]
13
Th
Oct 6
Learning from Demonstration (lecture)
no mandatory reading
"Maximum Margin Planning" (2006)  link
"Learning Attractor Landscapes for Learning Motor Primitives" (2003)  pdf
"Movement Primitives via Optimization" (2015)  pdf
Avi, Sammy
notes
14
Tu
Oct 11
LfD in Psychology (papers)
"Understanding Intentions of Others" (1995)  pdf  [Pro-Smitha;Con-Huazhe]
2 short papers: "Infant Imitation After a 1-Week Delay" (1988)  pdf1
; "Rational Imitation in Preverbal Infants" (2002)  pdf2 [Pro-Eldon, No Con]]
Tom Griffiths Guest Instructor
15
Th
Oct 13
No Lecture
16
Tu
Oct 18
LfD Algorithms (papers)
"Maximum Entropy IRL" (2010)  pdf [Pro-Kush; Con-Nick L]
"A Reduction of Imitation Learning and Structured Prediciton to No-Regret Online Learning" (2010)  pdf [Pro-Weicheng;Con-Avi]
17
Th
Oct 20
LfD in HRI (papers)
"Trajectories and Keyframes for Kinesthetic Teaching" (2012)  pdf [Pro-Nicholas A; Con-Bayu]
"Designing Robot Learners that Ask Good Questions" (2012) pdf [Pro-Thomas(Tom) G;Con-Xinlei]
further reading:
"Using Perspective Taking to Learn from Ambiguous Demonstrations" (2006)  pdf
[Communication]
18
Tu
Oct 25
Recap
no reading
Glen, Nick
notes
19
Th
Oct 27
Intent Inference and Expression(lecture)
no mandatory reading
"Planning Based Prediction for Pedestrians" (2009) pdf
"Generating Legible Motion (2013)"  pdf
Allan,Caleb
notes
20
Tu
Nov 1
Intent in Psychology (papers)
"Understanding and Sharing Intentions" (2005)  pdf [Pro-Molly;Con-Chandrayee]
"Obsessed with Goals" (2007)  pdf [Pro-Christie; Con-Jeremy]
21
Th
Nov 3
Intent Algorithms (papers)
"Robot Navigation in Dense Human Crowds" (2012)  pdf  [Pro-Matt M, Con-Carolyn]
"Predicing Human Reaching Motion" (2015)  pdf
[Pro-Andrea;Con-Tian]
22
Tu
8 Nov
Intent in HRI (papers)
"Improving Robot Readability" (2011)  pdf  [Pro-Jonathan;Con-Gil]
"Anticipation in Robot Motion" (2011)  pdf  [Pro-Allan;Con-Xinyu]
futher reading:
"Communication of Intent in Assistive Free Flyers" (2014)  pdf
23
Th
10
Natural Language
no reading
Jacob Andreas; scribes: Abhishek, Greg
notes
24
Tu
15 Nov
Natural Language Algorithms (papers)
"Knowledge and Implicature" (2013)  pdf  [Pro-Abhiskek;Con-Wenxuan]
"Asking for Help Using Inverse Semantics" (2014)  pdf  [Pro-Daniel F, Con - Daniel S]
further reading:
"Towards Understanding Natural Language  Directions (2010)"  pdf
25
Th
17 Nov
Natural Language in HRI (papers)
"Simon Plays Simon Says" (2011)  pdf  [Smitha,Wei-Cheng]
"Rhetorical Robots" (2013)  link [Marcell, Eldon]
26
Tu
22 Nov
Communication beyond Motion or Intent (papers)
"Nonverbal Leackage in Robots" (2009)  link  [Nick L., Molly]
"Learning Behavior Styles" (2010)  pdf [Pro-Esther;Con-Greg]
further reading:
"Conversational Gaze Aversion" (2009)  link
"Robot Deictics" (2014)  pdf
27
Th
24 Nov
Thanksgiving
28
Tu
29 Nov
Project Presentations
29
Th
1 Dec
Project Presentations
For more readings, check out a few other class websites (this is by no means a comprehensive list):
Cooperative Machines (MIT)
Human-Robot Interaction (GaTech)
Human-Robot Interaction (UW)
Manipulation Algorithms (CMU)
© Anca Dragan