URL: http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu:80/~bh
HomePage for Brian Harvey (bh@cs.Berkeley.EDU)
then
now
Brian Harvey
Computer Science Division
University of California at Berkeley
784  Soda Hall  / 510 917-7828
bh@cs.berkeley.edu
(he/him/hey, you)
BS,  Mathematics ,
MIT , 1969
MS,  Computer Science ,
Stanford , 1975
PhD,  Science
and Mathematics
Education ,
Berkeley , 1985
MA, Clinical Psychology,
New College of California , 1990
Take a look at   my son Heath .
I'm a "Senior Lecturer with Security of Employment Emeritus,"
which means that they paid me to teach full-time (not to do research), but was
essentially tenured, even though I'm not supposed to call it that.
(But since nobody outside the University of California has any idea what
that title means, I'm allowed to call myself a "Teaching Professor Emeritus"
instead.  Research faculty at some other UC campuses don't allow this for
their teaching faculty, because they're
afraid people might think we're like them and they'll get cooties.)
I am retired as of July 1, 2013.  But I'm continuing to work on various
education-related projects at the University.
I taught many of the lower division (freshman and sophomore)
computer science courses
at Berkeley, as well as one called  Social
Implications of Computing  and
occasionally others.I'm (still) faculty advisor of the
Computer Science
Undergraduate Association  and of the
Open Computing Facility .
You can see
videos
of my course
CS 61A,
Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs ,
based on the amazing
textbook
of the same name, still, after 50 years, the best computer science
book in the world.  My lecture notes, sample exams, and other course documents
are preserved  here .  The videos are archived off campus
because they're not captioned and the campus is required to caption any videos
they present to the world.  I am pleased and honored that people are still
discovering my course online and pursuing it with interest, even without
gold stars for completing it.
I'm also interested in the use of computers in
pre-college education; I used to be a  high school
teacher, and was involved in the development of the Logo programming
language.  More recently I've been helping develop the Snap !  language
(see below).
Brian's Last Lecture
(Quicktime) (download it to watch; don't try to stream it in the browser)
Build Your Own Blocks
(
a/k/a  BYOB ) is an extended version of
Scratch , a
drag-and-drop programming language for kids from MIT.
I've been working on it with Jens Mönig, adding
higher order functions  and true object
inheritance for first-class sprites, to
support an undergraduate-level
introductory computer science course.  We have
established such a course
at Berkeley, and are working on spreading it to other colleges and high
schools through teacher preparation and support efforts.
This project really excites me — sneaking the ideas of Scheme
into the visual metaphor of Scratch! (  at
the right is λ.)
Recently we also snuck in the vector and matrix functions of APL. :)
The  Beauty and Joy of Computing  is
Berkeley's computer science course for non-majors, and also, in somewhat
different form, a  high school  CS course
intended for a wide audience, including the kids who have not traditionally
viewed themselves as CS nerds.  In addition to programming in Snap ! , it
includes a strong component of the social implications of computing.  The high
school version is being developed in collaboration with  EDC , a nonprofit R&D company with long
experience developing K-12 curricula.  It is College Board endorsed as meeting
the requirements for the new AP  CS
Principles  exam.
Berkeley Logo (UCBLogo)
Berkeley Logo ( download manual as text )
( download manual as PDF )
( download readme )
is a freeware interpreter that I wrote along with
several students.  (Major contributors are Daniel van Blerkom, Khang Dao,
Michael Katz, Douglas Orleans, and Sanford Owings.)
News!  UCBLogo development has been taken over by wonderful chief volunteer
Josh Cogliati and bunches of other volunteers:
dmalec, Barak A. Pearlmutter, janekr, hosiet, reinerh, atehwa, kilobyte, pahihu
The newest source tree is here:
https://github.com/jrincayc/ucblogo-code .
You can file bug reports in its issue tracker at Github.
The current version is 6.2.4, posted 2 Jul 2024.
Click here to retrieve
the  complete distribution  archive for
Unix/Linux ,
MacOS X ,
or  Windows ,
complete with C source code.
Here are links to version 5.3 for frozen platforms
DOS
or  Mac pre-OS X .
A version for the One Laptop Per Child XO is
here .
(If you think Logo is just a graphics
language for little kids, check out a
sample program
that should impress you.)
Also consider David Costanzo's
FMSLogo , an
updated version of George Mills' MSWLogo,
a multimedia-enhanced version for MS Windows based on Berkeley Logo.
Or Andreas Micheler's
aUCBLogo ,
a rewrite and enhancement of UCBLogo.
Here are links to  other versions of Logo .
If you got here by Googling "logo" and are looking for someone to
design a logotype (an identifying symbol) for your organization, you're in the
wrong place.  This is the Logo computer programming language for
learners!
(The beautiful cover art
is by  Jon Rife .)
Now  FREE  for personal use:  The second edition of
Computer Science Logo Style , a three-volume series intended
mainly for teenagers and their teachers, or for adults who aren't professional
programmers.  You can look at the tables of contents and  complete
downloadable PDFs  and browsable HTML versions of
Symbolic Computing ,
a Logo programming text that concentrates on natural language
processing rather than the graphics most people associate with Logo.
Advanced Techniques ,
in which discussions of more advanced Logo features alternate with
sample projects using those features, with commentary on the
structure and style of each.
Beyond Programming ,
brief introductions to six college-level computer science topics.
Note:  These books are still in copyright, and in print.  They are
posted here for your personal use, not for resale or redistribution.
Thanks!
MIT Press web pages for  Computer Science Logo Style
v1
v2
v3
Logo Users Ring
Previous
5
Next
5
Random
Site
List Sites
Now  FREE  for personal use:  The second edition of
Simply Scheme: Introducing Computer Science ,
written with my colleague
Matthew Wright .
The book is intended for college-level non-CS majors and
for students who intend to major in CS but whose high school programming
background hasn't prepared them for our first course for majors.
The second edition was published in 1999.
You can look at  complete
downloadable PDFs  and browsable HTML versions of
the chapters.
Note:  This book is still in copyright, and in print.  It is
posted here for your personal use, not for resale or redistribution.
Thanks!
Here are the
program files  for use with the book (or by
HTTP ).
MIT
Press web page for  Simply Scheme
I've written several  papers about
computers and education .
I'm a member of
the  Exploratorium  (member #125!),
the  Electronic
Frontier Foundation ,
the League for Programming Freedom , and  the
American Civil Liberties Union .
Other organizations I support include the
Electronic Privacy Information Center ,
the Berkeley Food and Housing Project
Insight Housing  (when I first
started supporting them, they were the Berkeley Emergency Food Project;
I supported them in lieu of handing money (coins, back then) to people on
the street.  Then they became Food and Housing, and over time they've put
much more attention into the latter.  So now I give half the money to them and
half to the  Alameda County
Community Food Bank ),
the  Ethical Culture Fieldston School ,
and  Camp Winnarainbow .
(The latter group are not membership organizations, hence the two categories.)
So, what do you do for fun, Brian?
I visit the  Exploratorium ,
the world's best museum.
I watch the
Animaniacs , the only good thing on television.  (The original ones, not
the 2020 Hulu reboot, which is just okay.)
I listen to 1964-1968 British rock, especially the
Beatles .
I read  Peter Dickinson  books,
both his adult mystery novels and his books for children.
I eat Chinese food.
I collect  art ,
masks , and
Karakuri puzzle boxes.
I read progressive cartoonists such as
Keith Knight
,
Ruben Bolling
,
Jen Sorensen
,
Tom Tomorrow
,
and  Mike Dawson
.
(Links are to their patreon pages.)
,
,
.
How come all the best webcomics are about girls?
But lately I've really gotten hooked:
And of course I read the classics:
Check out the  Marxism
page  and the  Marxists Internet
Archive .
Check out the  world's best turkey
stuffing recipe .
bh@cs.berkeley.edu