URL: http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/~jr/DMA/dma.html
About DMA
home
Core Faculty
Robert Brayton
Kurt Keutzer
Andreas Kühlmann
Edward Lee
Jaijeet Roychowdhury
Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli
Sanjit Seshia
People
past faculty
all affiliated faculty
research scientists
alumni
Misc
DMA prelim syllabus
Design, Modeling & Analysis (DMA)
Design, Modeling and Analysis Research Area ,
EECS Department ,  University of California, Berkeley
The DMA research area at UC Berkeley focusses on the development of mathematical and algorithmic techniques for modeling,
analysis and design, and their application to complex systems in diverse domains (including automotive, avionic,
electronic, energy, biological, cyber-physical, embedded and software systems).
Previously known as CAD and DES, our area has a record of contributions to  design automation  over a  span of five decades .  Notable DMA
contributions include the circuit simulation program  SPICE , the Berkeley logic synthesis and verification tools
( Espresso , SIS, VIS,  ABC , etc.) and  Ptolemy , a framework for
research in models of computation.
We are located in the  DOP Center , 545 Cory Hall.
Current Research Thrusts
Embedded and Cyberphysical Systems : Models of computation, specification languages, real-time systems,
hardware and software synthesis and compilation for electronic systems.
Modeling : Modeling and model-order reduction of biological, electronic and software systems, together with analysis
techniques that identify design flaws, performance problems, and vulnerabilities.
Simulation : Algorithms, models and tools for continuous, discrete and stochastic simulation.
Synthesis and Verification : Algorithms and techniques for automated synthesis, formal verification, model checking and
optimization of complex electronic, biological and software systems.
For further information, see the webpages of individual DMA faculty.
Classes
EECS 144/244.  Fundamental Algorithms for System Modeling, Analysis and Optimization .
EECS 145M.  Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory .
EECS C149.  Introduction to Embedded Systems .
EECS 219A.  Numerical Simulation and Modelling .
[ f11
f10
f09
s09
s06 ]
EECS 219B.  Logic Synthesis for Hardware Systems .
EECS 219C.  Computer-Aided Verification .
EECS C219D.  Concurrent Models of Computation .
EECS 249.  Embedded System Design: Models, Validation, and Synthesis .
EECS 290A.  Numerical Simulation and Modelling II .
[ s10 ]
Research Centers and Collaborations
Donald O. Pederson Center for System Design (DOP)
Berkeley Verification and Synthesis Research Center (BVSRC)
Center for Hybrid and Embedded Software Systems (CHESS)
Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC)
Team for Research in Ubiquitous Secure Technology (TRUST)
Gigascale Systems Research Center (GSRC)
Multiscale System Center (MuSyC)
Page generated 2011-12-12 16:38:54 PST, by  jemdoc .