URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/pnuzzo.html
Pierluigi Nuzzo
Research Areas
Cyber-Physical Systems and Design Automation (CPSDA)
Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR)
Integrated Circuits (INC)
Computer Architecture & Engineering (ARC)
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Power and Energy (ENE)
Programming Systems (PS)
Security (SEC)
Theory (THY)
Research Centers
Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems Center (iCyPhy)
Biography
Pierluigi Nuzzo is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at the University of California (UC), Berkeley. He received the Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences from UC Berkeley in 2015, and B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Pisa, Italy, and the Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies, Pisa. His research revolves around high-assurance design of cyber-physical systems and systems-on-chip, spanning the whole spectrum from the mathematical foundations to design tools and applications, with emphasis on compositional methods for system design and requirement engineering. His research interests include methodologies and tools for the design and certification of artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, secure and trustworthy hardware design, and mixed-signal electronic design automation. Before returning to UC Berkeley, he was the Kenneth C. Dahlberg Chair and an Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Southern California (USC), Los Angeles, and a Co-Director of the USC Center for Autonomy and Artificial Intelligence. He also held research positions at the University of Pisa and IMEC, Leuven, Belgium, working on analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit design. His awards and honors include the NSF CAREER Award, the DARPA Young Faculty Award, the IEEE Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems (TCCPS) Early-Career Award, the Okawa Foundation Research Grant, the IEEE Council on Electronic Design Automation (CEDA) Ernest S. Kuh Early Career Award, the UC Berkeley EECS David J. Sakrison Memorial Prize, the UC Berkeley Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award, and several best paper and design competition awards.
Education
2015, Ph.D, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Univeristy of California, Berkeley
Photo
Links
Contact Information
567 Cory Hall
pierluigi.nuzzo@berkeley.edu