URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS61CL
Course: CS61CL | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
CS61CL
CS 61CL. Machine Structures
Catalog Description:  The same material as in 61C but in a lab-centric format.
Units:  4.0
Prerequisites:  61A, along with 61B or 61BL, or programming experience equivalent to that gained in 9C, 9F, or 9G .
Credit Restrictions:  Students will receive no credit for 61CL after taking 47C or 61C. Deficiency in 61C may be removed by taking 61CL.
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:    Starting this semester, Fall 2010, we are reinventing CS61C, starting with a blank page as to what makes sense to teach of computer architecture and hardware in 2010 that will give a solid foundation on the topic on which to build that should last for decades.
Rather the be something of a catch-all, as in the past, the goal is to learn the great ideas of computer design and implementation:
Memory Hierarchy (e.g., Caches)
Thread Level Parallelism (e.g., Multicore)
Data Level Parallelism (e.g., MapReduce and Graphical Processing Units or GPUs)
Instruction Level Parallelism (e.g., Pipelining)
The Transistor and its rate of change (e.g., Moore's Law)
Quantitative Evaluation (e.g., GFLOPS, Clocks Per Instruction or CPI)
Layering of Hardware Levels of Abstraction (e.g., AND gates, Arithmetic Logic Unit or ALU, Central Processing Units or CPU)
Compilation vs. Interpretation (e.g., C compiler, Java interpreter)
Hardware Instruction Set Interpretation (e.g., instructions as binary numbers)
The idea is to go over the big ideas at a higher level in the first two-thirds of the course, and then go back in more depth in the last third of the course.
We use a running example through the whole course to illustrate the ideas, and  will be the basis of a programming contest in the last third of the course to see who can make the fastest version running on the latest multicore hardware.
We use the C programming language and MIPS assembly language
to demonstrate these great ideas.  The course closely follows the
Patterson and Hennessy textbook supplemented by material on
the C programming language.
A sample week-by-week outline follows.
1 - Introduction - Mobile Client vs Cloud Server
2, 3 - C programming language vs MIPS assembly language
4 - Computer Components and Compilation vs Interpretation
5 - Quantitative Evaluation
6 - Memory Hierarchy
7 - Thread Level Parallelism
8 - Data Level Parallelism
9 - Transistors and Logic
10 - Layers of HW Abstraction
11 - Instruction Level Parallelism
12 - In More Depth: Cache associativity, Cache coherence, Locks
13 - In More Depth: Illusion of machine to yourself - Virtual Memory, Virtual Machines
14 - In More Depth: Dependability via Redundancy - Error Correcting Codes, Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks
15 - Contest Results and Conclusion
Coursework will involve weekly two-hour in-laboratory exercises
designed to learn the big ideas by doing experiments.