URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS47A
Course: CS47A | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
CS47A
CS 47A. Completion of Work in Computer Science 61A
Catalog Description:  Implementation of generic operations. Streams and iterators. Implementation techniques for supporting functional, object-oriented, and constraint-based programming in the Scheme programming language. Together with 9D, 47A constitutes an abbreviated, self-paced version of 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to 61B.
Units:  1.0
Prerequisites:  COMPSCI 61B, COMPSCI 9D, and consent of instructor.
Credit Restrictions:  Students will receive no credit for 47A after taking 61A.
Formats:  Fall: 0.0 hours of self-paced per week
Spring: 0.0 hours of self-paced per week
Grading basis:  letter
Final exam status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:   Course objectives: This self-paced course continues from where CS 9D left off, providing an abbreviated version of CS 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to CS 61B. Course activities include programming assignments and quizzes; quizzes focus on low-level language details or programming techniques, while programming assignments are broader in scope. The list of programming assignments appears below. All assignments use the Scheme programming language.
Topics Covered:
Rule-based programming: Students experiment with a rule interpreter and associated pattern matcher, and then write a set of rules that does simple type inference on a Scheme program.
Generic operations: Students first implement the set-of-integers data type both as a list of integers and as a sorted list of intervals. Then they convert these implementations to use data-directed programming. Finally, they recode the implementations in message-passing style.
Iterators and lazy evaluation: Students define Scheme streams to represent infinite data types and to implement iterators through multi-dimensional structures.
Scheme interpreter: Students work with and extend a Scheme interpreter written in Scheme.
Efficiency improvements: Students explore the efficiency benefits of mutation and vectors compared to side-effect-free programming using lists.