URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/ELENG120
Course: ELENG120 | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
ELENG120
ELENG 120. Signals and Systems
Catalog Description:  Continuous and discrete-time transform analysis techniques with illustrative applications. Linear and time-invariant systems, transfer functions. Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace and Z-transforms. Sampling and reconstruction. Solution of differential and difference equations using transforms. Frequency response, Bode plots, stability analysis. Illustrated by analysis of communication systems and feedback control systems.
Units:  4
Prerequisites:  EECS 16A and EECS 16B.
Formats:  Spring: 4 hours of lecture and  1 hour of recitation per week
Fall: 4 hours of lecture and  1 hour of recitation per week
Grading basis:  letter
Final exam status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Class Schedule (Fall 2022):
TuTh 14:00-15:59, North Gate 105 –
Babak AYAZIFAR Class Schedule (Spring 2023):
TuTh 14:00-15:59, Valley Life Sciences 2060 –
Babak AYAZIFAR
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:   Course objectives:  This course introduces mathematical techniques used in the design and analysis of signals and systems.  The intention is to promote an understanding of the fundamental systems concepts in electrical engineering fields such as communications, control, and signal processing.
Topics Covered:
Signals and Systems
Linearity, causality, BIBO stability, time invariance, memory, invertibility
Linear Time-Invariant Systems
Convolution integral and convolution summation
Impulse response, frequency response
Differential equations, homogeneous and particular solutions
Difference equations
Fourier Series
Continuous-time Fourier series, Gibbs phenomenon
Discrete-time Fourier series, Discrete Fourier Transform, matrix representation
Fourier Transform
Continuous-time Fourier transform
Discrete-time Fourier transform
Relation of four Fourier series/transforms
Sampling
Sampling theorem
Analog-to-digital conversion, aliasing
Upsampling and downsampling
Digital-to-analog conversion, zero-order hold and first-order hold
Digital processing of continuous-time signals
Bandpass sampling
Communication
Pulse amplitude modulation, Nyquist pulses, synchronization
Frequency modulation, narrowband approximation
Discrete tone modulation
Control
Laplace Transform, region of convergence
Feedback systems, pole-zero plots, stability, root locus
Geometric evaluation of Fourier transform
Bode Plots
Z Transform
Two-sided z-transform, region of convergence, relation of z-transform to discrete time Fourier transform
Stability of discrete-time systems
One-sided z-transform, application to solving difference equations
Filter Design
Analog prototype, Bilinear transform
Stability, causality, selection of poles and zeros
Non-ideal filter effects
Related Areas:
Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO)   Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR)   Information, Data, Network, and Communication Sciences (IDNCS)   Signal Processing (SP)