URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/asir.html
Asir Intisar Khan: Faculty Home Page
Larger Photo
Asir Intisar Khan
Assistant Professor
Contact Information
asir@berkeley.edu
Links
Personal Homepage
Publications
Research Support
Saleem Hasan
3-0225
saleemhasan@berkeley.edu
Biography
Asir Intisar Khan is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at the University of California, Berkeley, beginning in January 2026. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 2023 and his B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology in 2016.   Khan’s research focuses on engineering heterogeneous electronic materials and devices for energy-efficient 3D integrated electronics. His group investigates charge, heat, and spin transport at nanoscale interfaces to address the energy and latency limits of emerging computing technologies. Areas of interest include emerging memory technologies and their heterogeneous integration, nanoscale interconnects using topological quantum materials, high-frequency electronics based on wide and ultrawide bandgap devices, and their thermal management strategies. His interdisciplinary work has been recognized with the AVS Russell & Sigurd Varian Award, IEEE Electron Device Society (EDS) Ph.D. Fellowship, Materials Research Society (MRS) Gold Graduate Award, and several best paper and presentation awards at leading venues, including the IEEE Symposium on VLSI Technology and Circuits, MRS Meetings, SRC TECHCON, and the AVS Symposium. During his Ph.D., Khan spent time at TSMC and IBM Watson as a research and development intern. Dr. Khan is always seeking highly motivated graduate students, undergraduate researchers, and postdoctoral scholars with a strong interest in transformative materials, devices, and their heterogeneous integration for energy-efficient electronics.
Education
2023, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, Stanford University
2021, M.S., Electrical Engineering, Stanford University
2016, B.S., Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
Research Areas
Physical Electronics (PHY)
Power and Energy (ENE)
Electronic Materials
Teaching Schedule
EE 130. Integrated-Circuit Devices , TuTh 12:30-13:59, Lewis 9
EE 230A. Integrated-Circuit Devices , TuTh 12:30-13:59, Lewis 9