URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/EEC145M
Course: EEC145M | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
EEC145M
EE C145M. Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory
Catalog Description:  Laboratory exercises constructing basic interfacing circuits and writing 20-100 line C programs for data acquisition, storage, analysis, display, and control. Use of the IBM PC with microprogrammable digital counter/timer, parallel I/O port. Circuit components include anti-aliasing filters, the S/H amplifier, A/D and D/A converters. Exercises include effects of aliasing in periodic sampling, fast Fourier transforms of basic waveforms, the use of the Hanning filter for leakage reduction, Fourier analysis of the human voice, digital filters, and control using Fourier deconvolution. Lectures cover principles explored in the lab exercises and design of microcomputer-based systems for data acquisitions, analysis and control.
Units:  3.0
Prerequisites:  EE 16A & 16B.
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:   Course objectives:
To use the LabVIEW programming language, and digital and analog interfacing in an interactive, microcomputer environment
To learn to use digital timers, digital interfacing, and simple handshaking with expansion cards and external devices.
To learn the principles of operation and use of D/A and A/D converters and build a data acquisition circuit
To learn to sample digital data, use anti-aliasing filters and windows, and perform the FFT
To learn to use digital filters, and digital control strategies for both linear and non-linear systems
To learn to design anti-aliasing filters that meet specific requirements
To make programs and analog circuits work together (design and debugging)
Topics covered:
Laboratory exercises constructing basic interfacing circuits and writing LabVIEW programs for data acquisition, storage, display, and control. Use of the IBM PC microcomputer running the Windows XP operating system and a subsystem containing a dedicated processor, analog and digital I/O, timers, and memory. Circuit components include operational and instrumentation amplifiers, anti-aliasing filters, the sample-and-hold amplifier, A/D and D/A converters.  Exercises include the timing of external events, digital interfacing with handshaking, effects of aliasing in periodic sampling, fast Fourier transforms of basic waveforms, the use of the Hann filter for spectral leakage reduction, Fourier analysis of the human voice, digital filters, and control using Fourier deconvolution.  Students perform ten laboratory exercises working in groups of two and then individually write five long and five short laboratory reports.  General list of topics include:
Computer architecture
LabVIEW programming
Bits and numbers, timers
Event timing
Student's t analysis
Digital I/O
Single and multiple word transfers, handshaking
Analog interfacing, D/A converters
Introduction to A/D converters
Periodic sampling, aliasing
Integral Fourier transforms
Windowing, discrete Fourier transforms
Aliasing and anti-aliasing filters
Spectral analysis
Sampling system design summary
FFT of periodic signals, resonant systems
FFT control of linear time-invariant systems
On-off and proportional control algorithms
A Real-time digital filters vs. analog filters
PID control
Interfacing techniques
Data analysis
Design problem examples
Related Areas:
Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO)