URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS280A
CS 280A. Intro to Computer Vision and Computational Photography
Catalog Description:  This course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from  scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.
Units:  4
Course Objectives:  Students will learn the fundamentals of 3D vision:
stereo, multi-view geometry, camera calibration, structure-frommotion, multi-view stereo, and the plenoptic function , mechanics of a pin-hole camera, representation of images as pixels, physics of light and the process of image formation, to manipulating the visual information using signal processing techniques in the spatial and frequency domains. , Students will learn classic algorithms in image manipulation with Gaussian and Laplacian Pyramids, understand the hierarchy of image transformations including homographies, and how to warp an image with these transformations., Students will learn how to apply Convolutional Neural Networks for
computer vision problems and how they can be used for image manipulation.
Student Learning Outcomes:  After this class, students will be comfortable implementing, from scratch, these algorithms in modern programming languages and deep learning libraries.
Prerequisites:  COMPSCI 61B; MATH 53; and MATH 54, MATH 56, MATH 110, or EECS 16A. COMPSCI C182 or COMPSCI 189 should be taken as a co-requisite.
Formats:  Fall: 3.0 hours of lecture and  1.0 hours of discussion per week
Spring: 3.0 hours of lecture and  1.0 hours of discussion per week
Grading Basis:  letter
Final Exam Status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Links:
EECS Course Archives (CalNet authentication required)
CS enrollment policies
EE enrollment policies
HKN course maps