URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS169
Course: CS169 | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
CS169
CS 169. Software Engineering
Catalog Description:  Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Function-oriented and object-oriented modular design techniques, designing for re-use and maintainability. Specification and documentation. Verification and validation. Cost and quality metrics and estimation. Project team organization and management. Students will work in teams on a substantial programming project.
Units:  4.0
Prerequisites:  Computer Science 61B and 61C, and either Computer Science 70 or Mathematics 113.
Formats:  Fall: 3.0 hours of lecture and  1.0 hours of discussion per week
Spring: 3.0 hours of lecture and  1.0 hours of discussion per week
Summer: 6.0 hours of lecture and  2.0 hours of discussion per week
Grading basis:  letter
Final exam status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Class Schedule (Spring 2019):
TuTh 2:00PM - 3:29PM, Valley Life Sciences 2060 –
Armando Fox
Spring 2019 class homepage on bCourses
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:   Course objectives: To have detailed knowledge of the object-oriented software development method, and to be able to apply it. To master the development of a medium size software application from the conception stage to deployment, using modern technologies. To experience working in a team.  To master written technical communication.
Topics covered:
Software engineering processes
Object-oriented processed
Agile processes (Extreme programming)
Gathering requirements
Specifications
Unified Modeling Language
Design
Unified Modeling Language
Design patterns
Version control
Testing
Regression testing
Integration testing
Test generation
Debugging
General principles
Delta debugging
Runtime monitoring
Purify
Cooperative Bug Isolation
Diduce
Eraser (data race debugging)
Software security
Verification
Refactoring
Software reuse
Programming with Exceptions
Related Areas:
Operating Systems & Networking (OSNT)   Programming Systems (PS)