URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CS172
Course: CS172 | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
CS172
CS 172. Computability and Complexity
Catalog Description:  Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.
Units:  4.0
Prerequisites:  170.
Formats:  Fall: 3 hours of lecture and  1 hour of discussion per week
Spring: 3 hours of lecture and  1 hour of discussion per week
Grading basis:  letter
Final exam status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Class Schedule (Spring 2019):
MoWe 2:30PM - 3:59PM, Soda 306 –
Carlos Munoz
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:   Course objectives: Provide a sound understanding of the fundamental limits of computation, as evidenced by the existence of non-computable functions, NP-hard problems etc.  Formalize key abstract concepts such as machine models, language classes, universal machines, reducibility, computability, and resource-bounded computation.  Understand how these concepts relate to practical issues such as compiler design, program checking, computational intractability, approximability and cryptography.
Topics covered:
CS 172 presents some of the most fundamental results in theoretical Computer Science. These results attempt to answer, in a precise mathematical sense, the following two questions, which are of obvious practical as well as philosophical interest:
Can a given problem be solved by computation?
How efficiently can a given problem be solved by computation?
Thus, unlike CS 170, this course focuses on problems rather than on specific algorithms for solving problems. A precise formulation of the two questions above requires a formalization of the notion of "computer" or "machine". Thus the course outline breaks naturally into three parts:
Models of computation (Automata Theory)
Finite automata and regular languages.
Push-down automata and context-free languages.
Turing machines and recursive languages.
What can we compute? (Computability Theory): existence of non-computable functions, the Halting problem, diagonalization, reductions, Rice's Theorem.
How efficiently can we compute? (Complexity Theory): time- and space-bounded computation, the classes P and NP, NP-completeness, space-bounded computation (PSPACE and NL), provably exponential time languages, circuit complexity, zero knowledge proofs, applications to cryptography.
Related Areas:
Security (SEC)   Theory (THY)