URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Courses/CSC249A
Course: CSC249A | EECS at UC Berkeley
Skip to main content
Home
Academics
Courses
CSC249A
CS C249A. Introduction to Embedded Systems
Catalog Description:  This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
Units:  4.0
Credit Restrictions:  Students will receive no credit for Electrical Engineering/Computer Science C249A after completing Electrical Engineering/Computer Science C149.
Formats:  Fall: 3 hours of lecture and  3 hours of laboratory per week
Spring: 3 hours of lecture and  3 hours of laboratory per week
Grading basis:  letter
Final exam status:  Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period
Also listed as:  EL ENG C249A
Class Schedule (Fall 2019):
TuTh 9:30AM - 10:59AM, Cory 540AB –
Prabal Dutta ,  Sanjit A. Seshia
Fall 2018 class homepage on bCourses
Class homepage on inst.eecs
General Catalog listing
Department Notes:  EECS 149 introduces students to the design and analysis of computational systems that interact with physical processes (cyber-physical systems). Applications of such systems include medical devices and systems, consumer electronics, toys and games, assisted living, traffic control and safety, automotive systems, process control, energy management and conservation, environmental control, aircraft control systems, communications systems, instrumentation, critical infrastructure control (electric power, water resources, and communications systems for example), robotics and distributed robotics (telepresence, telemedicine), defense systems, manufacturing, and smart structures.
A major theme of this course is on the interplay of practical design with formal models of systems, including both software components and physical dynamics. A major emphasis is on building high confidence systems with real-time and concurrent behaviors.
Main class web page:  http://chess.eecs.berkeley.edu/eecs149/ .
Related Areas:
Cyber-Physical Systems and Design Automation (CPSDA)