URL: https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/mengjieyu.html
Mengjie Yu
Research Areas
Physical Electronics (PHY)
Integrated Circuits (INC)
Micro/Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS)
Biography
Mengjie Yu is an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. She received her B.A. in Optical Engineering from Zhejiang University in 2012, and Ph.D. degree in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2018 from Cornell University. She held research staff associate position in the Department of Applied Physics and Mathematics at Columbia University from 2015-2018. From 2018 to 2021, she was a postdoctoral fellow in the School of John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University. Before joining Berkeley, she was Gabilan Assistant Professor in Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of Southern California. She serves as an associate editor for NPJ Nanophotonics, guest editors for Nanomaterials, Photonics Research and Optical Material Express, on the Early Career Editorial Advisory Board for APL Photonics and Advanced Photonics. She is the committee chair of Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO), Micro and Nano Photonics Devices and Photonics North, committee member of Advanced Photonics Congress, Optical Fiber Communication (OFC) conference, Frontiers in Optics (FiO), IPR and ACP conferences. She is the 2020 the Optica (formerly OSA) Ambassador, the Caltech 2019 Young Investigator Lecturer and the Rising Star Women in Engineering in the Asian Deans Forum 2019. She served as chair of the OSA Integrated Photonics Technical Group from 2019 - 2021. She was a recipient of DARPA Young Investigator Award in 2023, Powell Faculty Research Award in 2022, Maiman Award and Emil Wolf Award in 2016.
Education
2018, Ph.D, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Cornell University
2012, B.A, Optical Engineering, Zhejiang University
Photo
Larger Photo
Links