[Courses CS161] CS 161. Computer Security Catalog Description: Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems. Units: 4 Related Areas: Security (SEC) Prerequisites: COMPSCI 61B, COMPSCI 61C, and COMPSCI 70. Formats: Summer: 6.0-6.0 hours of lecture and 2.0-3.0 hours of discussion per week Spring: 3.0-3.0 hours of lecture and 1.0-1.5 hours of discussion per week Fall: 3.0-3.0 hours of lecture and 1.0-1.5 hours of discussion per week Grading Basis: letter Final Exam Status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Class Schedule (Spring 2026): CS 161 – MoWeFr 15:00-15:59, Wheeler 150 – Henry Corrigan-Gibbs , Raluca Ada Popa Class Notes - Time conflicts are allowed - Instructors plan to offer an alternate final exam - Lectures will be recorded - Seats reserved for students with enrollment permission are not open. They are reserved for students in internal programs. Please DO NOT ask faculty or staff for one of these seats. The students who qualify have already been notified. - FAQ: https://fa25.cs161.org/resources/faqs/ Links: EECS Course Archives (CalNet authentication required) CS enrollment [Courses CS261] Course: CS261 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses CS261 CS 261. Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3.0 Prerequisites: 162. Formats: Fall: 3 hours of lecture per week Spring: 3 hours of lecture per week Grading basis: letter Final exam status: No final exam Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing Related Areas: Security (SEC) [Courses CS? ga=2.141192887.424999250.1551317347 1282331215.1540268330] Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3.0 CS 261N. Internet and Network Security Catalog Description: Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. Units: 4.0 CS 262A. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis [Courses CS] Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems. Units: 3 CS 261. Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3 CS 261N. Internet and Network Security Catalog Description: Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. Units: 4 CS 262A. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, [Courses EE? ga=2.180573799.1115] course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems. Units: 3 CS 261. Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3 CS 261N. Internet and Network Security Catalog Description: Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. Units: 4 CS 262A. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of systems for managing [Courses CS? ga=2.49145060.370293363.1598336094 476512950.1598336094] computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3.0 CS 261N. Internet and Network Security Catalog Description: Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. Units: 4.0 CS 262A. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis and engineering of large software systems. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper [Courses CS? ga=2.263971404.1965064198.1550814977 423938723.1528306243] Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems. Units: 3 CS 261. Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits. Units: 3 CS 261N. Internet and Network Security Catalog Description: Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls. Units: 4 CS 262A. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, [Courses CS161] They are reserved for students in internal programs. Please DO NOT ask faculty or staff for one of these seats. The students who qualify have already been notified. - FAQ: https://fa25.cs161.org/resources/faqs/ Links: EECS Course Archives (CalNet authentication required) CS enrollment policies EE enrollment policies HKN course maps [Courses CS? ga=2.141192887.424999250.1551317347 1282331215.1540268330] computers, multiprocessors, and case studies. Term paper or project is required. Units: 4.0 CS 260A. User Interface Design and Development Catalog Description: The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams. Units: 4.0 CS 260B. Human-Computer Interaction Research Catalog Description: This course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems. Units: 3.0 CS 261. Security in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, [Courses CS? ga=2.141192887.424999250.1551317347 1282331215.1540268330] systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages; security infrastructure; extensible systems and APIs; performance analysis and engineering of large software systems. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required. Units: 4.0 CS 262B. Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Catalog Description: Continued graduate survey of large-scale systems for managing information and computation. Topics include basic performance measurement; extensibility, with attention to protection, security, and management of abstract data types; index structures, including support for concurrency and recovery; parallelism, including parallel architectures, query processing and scheduling; distributed data management, including distributed and mobile file systems and databases; distributed caching; large-scale data analysis and search. Homework assignments, exam, and term paper or project required. Units: 3.0 CS 263. Design of Programming Languages Catalog Description: Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness. Units: 3.0 CS 264. Implementation of Programming Languages Catalog Description: Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization.
[resources students bpe] EE? Fall 2018 cohort Computer Science Scholars CS Scholars is a first-year student support program intended to serve those from under-represented communities who have had little or no exposure to Computer Science. Learn more about CS Scholars View Open Faculty Positions [resources undergrads cs advising] CS Undergraduate Advising and Support - EECS at Berkeley Soda Hall CS Undergraduate Advising & Support The Computer Science Division offers advising services for undergraduate students regarding degree requirements, enrollment, and resources. We are here to help and support you through your studies. Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions related to the CS major, coursework, research, or just need someone to talk to. Visit us In This Page CS Advising Calendar CS Major Advising CS Class Scheduling and Enrollment CS Peer Advisors Learn from experienced peers Come talk to us about… Program Planning Undergraduate Research Internship Guidance CS enrollment and waitlists EECS Honors Program Drop-In Advising In-person Drop-in Advising availabile Tuesday/Wednesday 1:30 – 3:30 PM CS Students: 349 Soda CS and EECS Students: 205 Cory Virtual Drop-in advising is available on Thursdays, 1:30 – 3:30 pm. Book an Appointment (Zoom) Need to chat with an advisor? Use our online booking system to schedule a 1:1 appointment. Book Zoom Appointment (CS Only) You can always reach us during business hours by email, cs-advising@berkeley.edu (CS students) or eecs-advising@berkeley.edu (EECS students) CS Advising Calendar (CalNet Login Required) EECS 101 | Ed Stem For the most up-to-date guidance on [category people students cs scholars] CS Scholars Archives - EECS at Berkeley CS Scholars November 14, 2024 Charlene Duncan receives Excellence in Advising & Student Services Award Charlene Duncan, CS Scholars program director, has been honored with an Excellence in Advising & Student Services Award at UC Berkeley. The Outstanding Advisor or Student Services Staff Award is presented to individuals “with more than three years of experience working in advising or student support at Berkeley whose primary… February 20, 2018 Diving into Blue Waters: Wen-Rui Liao With a father and a brother who are both electrical engineers in Singapore, Wen-Rui Liao came to UC Berkeley knowing that he wanted to learn about both software and hardware and their interfaces. He has been watching the ways that new technologies are impacting so many aspects of people’s everyday… View Open Faculty Positions [cs scholars cohort] similar CS-related topics in seminar. Doris Lee CS Scholars has been incredibly rewarding in helping me explore fun programming projects outside of class and develop close friendships with other CS students. Sebastian Shanus I really enjoyed discovering my learning strengths and goals, while meeting a friendly, intellectual group of classmates to study with! I highly recommend it to anyone interested in CS. Michelle Koo I have made connections on a more personal level with many of my fellow members, which allows me to more effectively discuss ideas, collaborate, study, and grow in the field of CS. Meg Holtzinger CS Scholars Program View Open Faculty Positions [cs scholars cohort] work with so many cool friends who share the same cool interest! Huirong (Ronnie) Zhu The weekly CS Scholars discussion sections are a great way to get a new perspective on CS as a field in the Berkeley community and the Bay Area as a whole. Tara Rezvani CS Scholars provides me with support and learning opportunities that I would not have received otherwise. It helps make me feel like I am not just another person lost in the crowd. Karishma Morabia The CS Scholars program provided me with a smooth introduction to CS and also gave me the opportunity to receive a greater amount of help and attention in my core Computer Science classes. Jay Iyer It’s a great feeling to know that there are people here to support me, along with a community to go through this journey with. Carmen Tang It was really great having this opportunity to meet other CS students who are interested in discussing similar CS-related topics in seminar. Doris Lee CS Scholars has been incredibly rewarding in helping me explore fun programming projects outside of class and develop close friendships with other CS students. Sebastian Shanus I really enjoyed discovering my learning strengths [news charlene duncan receives excellence in advising student services award] Charlene Duncan receives Excellence in Advising & Student Services Award - EECS at Berkeley Charlene Duncan, CS Scholars program director, has been honored with an Excellence in Advising & Student Services Award at UC Berkeley. The Outstanding Advisor or Student Services Staff Award is presented to individuals “with more than three years of experience working in advising or student support at Berkeley whose primary role is the direct delivery of advising and/or student services to students. Ideal candidates have demonstrated a positive impact on student learning, engagement, belonging, and success; and embody a student-centered, equity-oriented, strengths-based approach to advising, counseling, or mentoring.” Her nomination reads, “Charlene Duncan is an inspiring leader who has helped to create a cohesive community in the large and rigorous EECS Department. For nearly a decade, Charlene has served as a guide, advocate, and champion for Computer Science students, with a particular focus on students from underserved and under-resourced backgrounds. Her impact is sustained, the scope of her work is vast, and yet she uses an individualized, student-centered approach for each advisee. She has a special ability to put others at ease, build trust and embodies the Berkeley spirit of community and inclusiveness. Charlene stands at [resources undergrads cs advising] at Berkeley, and I hope to help others discover their own excitement for CS and Engineering. In my free time, I enjoy running, videography, traveling, and discovering new hiking viewpoints across the Bay Area. Peer Advising Schedule For the most up-to-date guidance on the CS major, please join EECS 101 on EdStem . In person: Tuesdays 12:30 pm – 1:30 pm, 349 Soda Alcove 1:30 pm – 3:30 pm, 212 Cory 3:30 pm – 5:00 pm, 349 Soda Alcove Wednesdays 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, 349 Soda Alcove Zoom Thursday 11:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 11:30 am – 4:30 pm Zoom Link Would you like to be a peer advisor? Peer advising is currently closed for the summer. We have started our search for a new group of peer advisors for the 2025-2026 school year. If you are interested in becoming a CS peer advisor, please review and submit your application . Questions, write to: carolmarshall@berkeley.edu Other Contacts If you have a general question, you can search for it on our Edstem EECS 101 Q&A forum. We use Edstem for departmental announcements, enrollment updates, and peer-directed correspondence. Questions about breadth requirements, withdrawal, and picking a major: CDSS advising grad-assts@eecs.berkeley.edu [resources students bpe] Students’ Program Cal NERDS for first generation college students African American Student Development Internships Professional opportunities for EECS students Berkeley Career Center internships and recruiting Career Preparation HKN resume help Berkeley Engineering career counseling and workshops Berkeley Career Center Interviewing and Job Offers Career planning Free Tutoring HKN tutoring CS Mentors group tutoring Center for Access to Engineering Excellence Tutoring, wellness/ academic/ professional workshops, CAPS Affinity Groups for Student Engagement The Association of Women in EE & CS (AWE) Bias Busters Black Engineering and Science Student Association (BESSA) Black Graduate Engineering and Science Students (BGESS) Hispanic Engineers and Scientists (HES) Latinx Association of Graduate Students in Engineering and Science (LAGSES) Queer Graduate Students in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (QICSE) Society of Women Engineers (SWE) Women in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (WICSE) 2018 EECS commencement Support for Undergraduate Women EECS offers a strong program to encourage and support undergraduate women students. Are you a woman majoring in CS or EE? Fall 2018 cohort Computer Science Scholars CS Scholars is a first-year student support program intended to serve those from under-represented communities who have had little or no exposure to Computer Science. Learn more about CS Scholars View Open Faculty [resources undergrads cs advising] appointment. Book Zoom Appointment (CS Only) You can always reach us during business hours by email, cs-advising@berkeley.edu (CS students) or eecs-advising@berkeley.edu (EECS students) CS Advising Calendar (CalNet Login Required) EECS 101 | Ed Stem For the most up-to-date guidance on the CS major, please join EECS 101 on EdStem . Contact Us Email: cs-advising@cs.berkeley.edu Make an Appointment CS Advisors Charlene Duncan CS Scholars Program Director 349 Soda, +1 (510) 642-2357 cs-scholars-coordinator@eecs.berkeley.edu Book an Appointment Gina Garcia CS Student Advisor 205 Cory, +1 (510) 642-7644 cs-advising@berkeley.edu Floriberto Garcia CS Student Advisor 349 Soda cs-advising@berkeley.edu Book an Appointment Grayson Johnston CS Student Advisor 205 Cory, +1 (510) 662-7372 cs-advising@be rkeley.edu Carol Marshall CS Student Advisor 349 Soda cs-advising@berkeley.edu Book an Appointment Lydia Raya Assistant Director of Undergraduate Affairs 349 Soda, +1 (510) 664-4436 cs-advising@berkeley.edu Book an Appointment CS Class Scheduling and Enrollment Questions about course scheduling and enrollment? Email: cs-enrollments@berkeley.edu CS Enrollment Manager Cindy Conners [hidden] CS Scheduler and Enrollment Manager 379 Soda cs-enrollments@eecs.berkeley.edu Savannah Scarlett EECS COCI Coordinator and CS Enrollment Assistant 379 Soda cs-enrollments@cs.berkeley.edu More information about CS enrollments Peer Advisors Christopher Lee Peer Advisor Hi! I’m Christopher, a 4th-year Computer Science major originally from Korea. Having navigated nearly four
[news graduate student syed tahmid mahbub awarded paul daisy soros fellowship] Graduate Student Syed Tahmid Mahbub Awarded Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship - EECS at Berkeley EECS congratulates graduate student Syed Tahmid Mahbub on being named a recipient of the prestigious 2025 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans. This highly competitive fellowship is awarded annually to outstanding immigrants and children of immigrants who demonstrate exceptional potential to make significant contributions to American society, culture, and their academic fields. Tahmid Mahbub, who completed his undergraduate studies at Cornell University, joins an elite group of fellows selected nationwide. This recognition is particularly notable given the rarity of the award being conferred upon engineers, highlighting Tahmid’s extraordinary accomplishments and promise in engineering and technology. The Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships provide generous funding and support to outstanding graduate students, empowering them to pursue ambitious projects and advance innovation in their respective fields. Tahmid’s selection underscores the excellence of Berkeley’s EECS graduate community and further solidifies the department’s reputation for nurturing leaders and innovators. View Open Faculty Positions [news dave epstein wins 2022 paul daisy soros fellowship] Dave Epstein wins 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship - EECS at Berkeley CS graduate student Dave Epstein (advisor: Alexei Efros) has won a 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Graduate Fellowship for New Americans. This fellowship recognizes outstanding graduate students who are immigrants and children of immigrants in the United States, and “who are poised to make significant contributions to US society, culture or their academic field.” Epstein is affiliated with the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) Lab where he is teaching machines to solve visual problems without labels, and enabling a creative understanding of the real world to emerge. He is also interested in language, machine learning, synthesis, and interaction. Paul & Daisy Fellowships come with a $90K award. Categories Honors Research Students View Open Faculty Positions [academics graduate fellowships] Homepage: http://www.src.org/student-center/fellowship Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowships DOE CSGF Program Coordinator 1609 Golden Aspen Drive, Suite 101 Ames, IA 50010 Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Phone: (515) 956-3696 E-mail: csgf@krellinst.org Fax: (515) 956-3699 Homepage: http://www.krellinst.org/csgf/ Fannie and John Hertz Foundation Fellowships 2456 Research Drive Livermore CA 94550-3850 Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Phone: (925) 373-1642 (8am-3pm Pacific Standard Time) E-mail: askhertz@hertzfoundation.org Fax: (925) 373-6329 Homepage: http://www.hertzfoundation.org/ The Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans 400 West 59th Street, 4th Floor New York, NY 10019 Eligible Degree Programs: all graduate engineering programs Phone: 212-547-6926 E-mail: pdsoros_fellows@sorosny.org Homepage: http://www.pdsoros.org Symantec Graduate Fellowship Program The application is online only. The focus of the program is on information security, availability, and integrity. It is open to international students. E-mail: SRLFellowship@Symantec.com Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Homepage: https://www.symantec.com/about/careers/graduate-fellowship For Canadians Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) Postgraduate Scholarships (PGS D or M) Scholarships and Fellowships Division 350 Albert St. Ottawa ON CANADA K1A 1H5 Eligible Degree Programs: Master’s or Ph.D. Phone: (613) 995-4273 E-mail: schol@nserc.ca Homepage: http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/PG-CS/BellandPostgrad-BelletSuperieures_eng.asp Academics Courses Approved CS Graduate and Special Topics Courses Technical Electives for the Computer Science Major Course-Numbering Convention Robotics Projects for EE 106/206B Graduate [category people students page] ideas with some of the “most exceptional mathematicians and computer scientists of… April 13, 2022 Dave Epstein wins 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship CS graduate student Dave Epstein (advisor: Alexei Efros) has won a 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Graduate Fellowship for New Americans. This fellowship recognizes outstanding graduate students who are immigrants and children of immigrants in the United States, and “who are poised to make significant contributions to US society, culture… April 7, 2022 Alisha Menon wins 2022 Outstanding Graduate Peer Mentor Award EECS Ph.D. candidate Alisha Menon (M.S. ’20, advisor: Jan Rabaey) has won a 2022 Outstanding Graduate Peer Mentor Award. This award, presented by The Graduate Assembly, honors four Berkeley graduate and professional students annually “who have shown an outstanding commitment to mentoring, advising, and generally supporting either undergraduate students or… March 28, 2022 Aviral Kumar, Serena Wang and Eric Wallace win 2022 Apple Scholars in AI/ML PhD fellowships Three EECS graduate students, Aviral Kumar (advisor: Sergey Levine), Serena Wang (advisors: Rediet Abebe and Michael Jordan), and Eric Wallace (advisors: Dan Klein and Dawn Song) have been named 2022 recipients of the Apple Scholars in AI/ML PhD fellowship. This fellowship recognizes graduate and postgraduate students [category honors page 19] computer scientists of… April 18, 2022 Noam Nisan, Kimberly Keeton, Bruce Hajek and Nickhil Jakatdar named 2022 Berkeley EECS Distinguished Alumni Congratulations to the winners of the 2022 EECS Distinguished Alumni Awards! The CS winners are Noam Nisan (academia) and Kimberly Keeton (industry); and the EE winners are Bruce Hajek (academia) and Nickhil Jakatdar (industry). Noam Nisan (Ph.D. 1988, advisor: Richard Karp), currently a CS professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem,… April 13, 2022 Dave Epstein wins 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship CS graduate student Dave Epstein (advisor: Alexei Efros) has won a 2022 Paul & Daisy Soros Graduate Fellowship for New Americans. This fellowship recognizes outstanding graduate students who are immigrants and children of immigrants in the United States, and “who are poised to make significant contributions to US society, culture… April 12, 2022 Bin Yu chosen as speaker for 2023 Wald Lectures EECS Prof. Bin Yu (Statistics M.A. ’87/Ph.D. ’90) has been chosen by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) to present the 2023 Wald Memorial Lectures. Considered the highest honor bestowed by the IMS, a single Wald Lecturer is selected annually to deliver a series of one, two, three or four one-hour… April 7, 2022 Audrey [book policies financial fellowships] Homepage: http://www.src.org/student-center/fellowship Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowships DOE CSGF Program Coordinator 1609 Golden Aspen Drive, Suite 101 Ames, IA 50010 Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Phone: (515) 956-3696 E-mail: csgf@krellinst.org Fax: (515) 956-3699 Homepage: http://www.krellinst.org/csgf/ Fannie and John Hertz Foundation Fellowships 2456 Research Drive Livermore CA 94550-3850 Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Phone: (925) 373-1642 (8am-3pm Pacific Standard Time) E-mail: askhertz@hertzfoundation.org Fax: (925) 373-6329 Homepage: http://www.hertzfoundation.org/ The Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans 400 West 59th Street, 4th Floor New York, NY 10019 Eligible Degree Programs: all graduate engineering programs Phone: 212-547-6926 E-mail: pdsoros_fellows@sorosny.org Homepage: http://www.pdsoros.org Symantec Graduate Fellowship Program The application is online only. The focus of the program is on information security, availability, and integrity. It is open to international students. E-mail: SRLFellowship@Symantec.com Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Homepage: https://www.symantec.com/about/careers/graduate-fellowship For Canadians Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) Postgraduate Scholarships (PGS D or M) Scholarships and Fellowships Division 350 Albert St. Ottawa ON CANADA K1A 1H5 Eligible Degree Programs: Master’s or Ph.D. Phone: (613) 995-4273 E-mail: schol@nserc.ca Homepage: http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/PG-CS/BellandPostgrad-BelletSuperieures_eng.asp Academics Courses Approved CS Graduate and Special Topics Courses Technical Electives for the Computer Science Major Course-Numbering Convention Robotics Projects for EE 106/206B Graduate [category people students page] the award recognizes outstanding… May 28, 2024 Three Berkeley Ph.D. students win Qualcomm Innovation Fellowships Berkeley EECS Ph.D. students Tess Despres, Ran (Thomas) Tian, and Chenfeng Xu have won Qualcomm Innovation Fellowships (QIF). Since 2009, the QIF has aimed “to enable students to pursue their futuristic innovative ideas.” Despres and co-author Alex Bellon from UCSD were selected for their work, “Crowd-Sourced and Private IoT Device… May 20, 2024 CDSS celebrates students’ resilience at inaugural college graduation “You have achieved an impressive feat, not only because you’ve completed a demanding curriculum, but also because you’ve been doing this during a time of historic change and challenge, beginning with a global pandemic and now – during your years here – widespread social unrest,” said Jennifer Chayes, dean of the new college that… April 18, 2024 Francisca Vasconcelos chosen as Paul and Daisy Soros New American fellow EECS Ph.D. student Francisca Vasconcelos (advisors: Jordan and Vazirani) has been chosen as a Paul and Daisy Soros fellow. She will receive up to $90,000 to support her graduate education as part of the Paul and Daisy Soros New American Fellowship, a merit-based program for immigrants and children of immigrants. April 18, 2024 AI Language Models [academics graduate fellowships] CANADA K1A 1H5 Eligible Degree Programs: Master’s or Ph.D. Phone: (613) 995-4273 E-mail: schol@nserc.ca Homepage: http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/PG-CS/BellandPostgrad-BelletSuperieures_eng.asp Academics Courses Approved CS Graduate and Special Topics Courses Technical Electives for the Computer Science Major Course-Numbering Convention Robotics Projects for EE 106/206B Graduate Admissions & Programs Industry-Oriented Graduate Programs Research-Oriented Graduate Programs Graduate Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Fellowships Adding the EECS/CS M.S. From Another Department Recommended Coursework for Applying to the Graduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Admissions & Programs EECS Bachelor of Science ECE Bachelor of Science Computer Science Bachelor of Arts Undergraduate Program Comparison Can You See Yourself Doing Research This Summer? Prospective Student Visitors Second Bachelor’s Degree Candidates Prospective Women Students New Silicon Initiative (NSI) Apple NSI Course Flow Map Apple NSI Fellowship and Scholarship Recipients View Open Faculty Positions [academics graduate fellowships] Graduate Fellowships - EECS at Berkeley Graduate Fellowships In this Page Department General For Canadians The fellowships listed below are for U.S. citizens and permanent residents unless otherwise noted. In addition, the Graduate Division also maintains its own fellowship website. Industry-Sponsored Apple scholarships for Berkeley EECS students. Apple Masters Scholarship in Integrated Systems General National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program GRF Operations Center Suite 600 1818 N Street NW Washington, DC 20036 Eligible Degree Programs: M.S. and Ph.D. Fastlane Application Phone: 866-673-4737 E-mail: info@nsfgrfp.org Homepage: https://www.fastlane.nsf.gov/grfp National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowships DoD NDSEG Fellowship Program Office One Research Court, Suite 360 Rockville, MD 20850 Eligible Degree Programs: all graduate engineering programs Phone: (202) 331-3516 Fax: (202) 265-8504 E-mail: ndseg@asee.org Homepage: http://www.asee.org/ndseg ASEE Graduate Fellowships: http://www.asee.org/fellowship-programs/graduate Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) Fellowship Semiconductor Research Corporation Graduate Fellowship Program P.O. Box 12053 Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-2053 Eligible Degree Program: M.S. and Ph.D. Phone: (919) 941-9400 E-mail: apply@src.org Homepage: http://www.src.org/student-center/fellowship Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowships DOE CSGF Program Coordinator 1609 Golden Aspen Drive, Suite 101 Ames, IA 50010 Eligible Degree Program: PhD. only Phone: (515) 956-3696 E-mail: csgf@krellinst.org Fax: (515) 956-3699 Homepage: http://www.krellinst.org/csgf/ Fannie and John
[give.berkeley.edu Gier] Joseph Thomas Gier - EECS at Berkeley Joseph Thomas Gier Learn more about the Joseph Gier Memorial Project! Joseph Gier and his patent for the Black Body Reflectometer ( US3216310A ) 1910-1961 When Joseph Thomas Gier was appointed associate professor of electrical engineering at UC Berkeley in 1952, he became the first tenured Black professor in the entire University of California educational system and the first tenured Black faculty member in a STEM field—and the second in any field—at a top-ranked, predominantly white university in the country (the first was W. Allison Davis, a professor of education at the University of Chicago who earned tenure in 1947). Wasn’t David Blackwell First? Although many in the University now celebrate statistician David Blackwell as the first Black ladder-rank professor at Berkeley — he had a dorm named in his honor in August 2018 — Gier was still acknowledged as the first until at least 2003 when he was the subject of a quiz question printed in the General Catalog. It is likely that Blackwell’s oral history, which was also published in 2003, played a role in the confusion. In the Interview History at the beginning of the document, Nadine Wilmot states “When [about history gier] Joseph Thomas Gier - EECS at Berkeley Joseph Thomas Gier Learn more about the Joseph Gier Memorial Project! Joseph Gier and his patent for the Black Body Reflectometer ( US3216310A ) 1910-1961 When Joseph Thomas Gier was appointed associate professor of electrical engineering at UC Berkeley in 1952, he became the first tenured Black professor in the entire University of California educational system and the first tenured Black faculty member in a STEM field—and the second in any field—at a top-ranked, predominantly white university in the country (the first was W. Allison Davis, a professor of education at the University of Chicago who earned tenure in 1947). Wasn’t David Blackwell First? Although many in the University now celebrate statistician David Blackwell as the first Black ladder-rank professor at Berkeley — he had a dorm named in his honor in August 2018 — Gier was still acknowledged as the first until at least 2003 when he was the subject of a quiz question printed in the General Catalog. It is likely that Blackwell’s oral history, which was also published in 2003, played a role in the confusion. In the Interview History at the beginning of the document, Nadine Wilmot states “When [2022] born in Washington, D.C. in 1896, graduated from Berkeley High in 1915, earned a B.A. from Cal in 1919, a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from MIT in 1921, and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Berkeley in 1929. He settled into a career at Howard University where he eventually became Dean of Engineering. View Open Faculty Positions [2019 03 salute to early women in stem at uc berkeley] A Salute to Early Women in STEM at UC Berkeley - EECS at Berkeley During the first hundred years at UC Berkeley women students and faculty were minimally present in science and engineering. By 1870, in its second year, the Faculty Senate proposed to the Regents the admission of women “on equal basis with men.” The Regents voted unanimously and next year Berkeley opened the door to eight women students. Further, women “could pursue the same curriculum of instruction as the other sex.” Four years later, President Gilman remarked that “the proportion of women who ranked high in scholarship was greater than that of men.” [1] After ten years, women students represented about one quarter of the student body, 62 out of 244 students. In 2019 women make up over half the undergraduates at UC Berkeley. First Women Researchers in STEM Agnes Fay Morgan In contrast to growing numbers of students, the faculty was almost devoid of women. Qualified female scientists were hired into non tenure-track faculty positions. An outstanding scholar, Agnes Fay Morgan , earned a PhD in Organic Chemistry from the University of Chicago in 1914, but was appointed as professor of nutrition. When she came to interview [give.berkeley.edu Gier] quiz question printed in the General Catalog. It is likely that Blackwell’s oral history, which was also published in 2003, played a role in the confusion. In the Interview History at the beginning of the document, Nadine Wilmot states “When Dr. Blackwell came to UC Berkeley in 1954 after a decade at Howard University in Washington D.C., he became, we think, the first African American ladder rank faculty person systemwide.” However, in the interview itself, Blackwell states that he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Gier had beaten him to it. “He was certainly here when I came. And he had some kind of faculty position, there’s no doubt about that. You have to be careful when you talk about ‘firsts.’” It would be correct to say that David Blackwell was the first Black full professor at UC Berkeley. Gier became a full professor in 1958. Early History Joseph Gier, 1928 Joe Gier was born in New Orleans on July 2, 1910, the third child of Joseph Thomas Sr., a porter, and Alice Genevieve Fazende, a dressmaker, both from Louisiana. His father died when he was 3 months old, and he and his sisters moved with their mother to Oakland where she [2019 03 salute to early women in stem at uc berkeley] professor and achieved distinction as an influential researcher. Active until 1954, Morgan was named faculty research lecturer at UC Berkeley in 1950, the first woman to be so honored. [3] Morgan Hall on the Berkeley campus is named for her. Two women taught in the Mathematics Department in the 1920s and 30s: Pauline Sperry and Emma Lehmer . Neither was hired in a tenure track position. Pauline Sperry moved to UC Berkeley from Smith College in 1917 as an instructor, after earning a PhD from the University of Chicago in 1916. In 1923 she became the first woman to be promoted to assistant professor in the Berkeley Mathematics Department, and then to associate professor in 1931. Sperry’s specialty was geometry and she taught many of the geometry courses at Berkeley. Although she never published another research paper after her PhD dissertation, Sperry successfully directed five PhD students at Berkeley between 1931 and 1949, all of whom went on to academic careers. During the 1920s she wrote two textbooks, Short Course in Spherical Trigonometry and Plane Trigonometry . [4] In addition, in 1931 she published a Bibliography of Projective Differential Geometry. Emma Lehmer earned a B.S. in math from UC Berkeley [category diversity] An effort is underway to restore the legacy of Berkeley EE Prof. Joseph Gier to the campus community. Gier, who was the first African American professor to earn tenure at the University of California, taught and ran a lab in Cory Hall between 1939 and 1958. … September 6, 2023 Ruzena Bajcsy awarded Berkeley Citation EECS Professor Emerita Ruzena Bajcsy was awarded the Berkeley Citation, the university’s highest honor, at a special event on Tuesday, Sept. 5. The surprise announcement was made at the end of a special event to commemorate The Past and Future of Robotics and Machine Learning Based on 250 Years of… July 5, 2023 Dan Garcia joins CRA-WP board CS Teaching Professor Dan Garcia has joined the board of directors of The Computing Research Association’s Committee on Widening Participation in Computing Research (CRA-WP). The CRA-WP was established in 1991 with the goal of increasing the participation of women in computing research, though its current mission broadly supports underrepresented populations… May 18, 2023 UC Regents vote to establish College of Computing, Data Science, and Society The UC Board of Regents today voted to establish UC Berkeley’s College of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS), the campus’s first [about history gier] quiz question printed in the General Catalog. It is likely that Blackwell’s oral history, which was also published in 2003, played a role in the confusion. In the Interview History at the beginning of the document, Nadine Wilmot states “When Dr. Blackwell came to UC Berkeley in 1954 after a decade at Howard University in Washington D.C., he became, we think, the first African American ladder rank faculty person systemwide.” However, in the interview itself, Blackwell states that he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Gier had beaten him to it. “He was certainly here when I came. And he had some kind of faculty position, there’s no doubt about that. You have to be careful when you talk about ‘firsts.’” It would be correct to say that David Blackwell was the first Black full professor at UC Berkeley. Gier became a full professor in 1958. Early History Joseph Gier, 1928 Joe Gier was born in New Orleans on July 2, 1910, the third child of Joseph Thomas Sr., a porter, and Alice Genevieve Fazende, a dressmaker, both from Louisiana. His father died when he was 3 months old, and he and his sisters moved with their mother to Oakland where she [2022] 2022 - EECS at Berkeley Yearly Archives: 2022 December 21, 2022 Berkeley EECS to honor Joseph Gier with memorial sculpture A community is defined by the heroes it chooses to celebrate. We invite you to join the EECS department in recognizing a previously overlooked hero, Berkeley EE Prof. Joseph T. Gier, the University of California’s first tenured Black professor. Raised in Oakland by a single mother, Gier came to… August 30, 2022 CS Kickstart kicks off to a great start CS Kickstart Fall 2022 cohort CS Kickstart, an EECS-affiliated student organization, held its week-long computer science immersion program earlier this month, ushering in a record turnout for the outreach program designed to attract female-identifying first-year students to computer science at Berkeley. Its ice cream social with CS advisors, which… February 21, 2022 Lee Julian Purnell (1896-1983), Berkeley’s earliest known Black EE student Lee Julian Purnell is the first Black student known to have graduated from the EECS department. He was born in Washington, D.C. in 1896, graduated from Berkeley High in 1915, earned a B.A. from Cal in 1919, a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from MIT in 1921, and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Berkeley in 1929. He settled
[book faculty] 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Neurological Surgery at UC San Francisco and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum’s Council on AI and Robotics. His books include “The Use of Knowledge in Analogy and Induction”, “Do the Right Thing: Studies in Limited Rationality” (with Eric Wefald), and “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach” (with Peter Norvig). His current concerns include the threat of autonomous weapons and the long-term future of artificial intelligence and its relation to humanity. Printable pdf of participating faculty View Open Faculty Positions [book 2019 faculty listgarten] BEARS 2019: Jennifer Listgarten - EECS at Berkeley BEARS 2019: Jennifer Listgarten Machine learning for protein engineering Berkeley Annual Research Symposium (BEARS) 2019 Jennifer Listgarten Abstract With the advent of more and more high-throughput technologies to measure protein properties of interest such as binding, expression, fluorescence, the time for machine learning to act synergistically with protein design is here. I will touch on two stories in this space. The first will be about how machine learning can be leveraged to improve CRISPR gene editing. The second will touch on how one can accelerate design/optimization of proteins with machine learning approaches— a sort of in silico approach to the method of Directed Evolution, which won the 2018 Nobel prize in Chemistry. Biography Jennifer Listgarten is a Professor in the EECS department and Center for Computational Biology , a member of the steering committee for the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) Lab , and a Chan Zuckerberg investigator. From 2007 to 2017 she was at Microsoft Research and before that, earned a PhD in the machine learning group at the University of Toronto. Her expertise is in machine learning, applied statistics and computational biology. She is interested in both methods development as well [research bears faculty] 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Neurological Surgery at UC San Francisco and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum’s Council on AI and Robotics. His books include “The Use of Knowledge in Analogy and Induction”, “Do the Right Thing: Studies in Limited Rationality” (with Eric Wefald), and “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach” (with Peter Norvig). His current concerns include the threat of autonomous weapons and the long-term future of artificial intelligence and its relation to humanity. Printable pdf of participating faculty View Open Faculty Positions [book 2019 faculty song] was a postdoctoral researcher at UC Davis in the Department of Computer Science, and the Section of Evolution and Ecology. < BEARS 2019: Jose Carmena BEARS 2019: Jennifer Listgarten > View Open Faculty Positions [news?field eecs news topics target id entityreference filter=68] in this year’s prestigious Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Awards. Student Recognition Nominator Victoria Phelps Finalist Dan Garcia Tyler Hou Honorable Mention Max Willsey Kelly Tou Honorable Mention Kris Pister The CRA noted that… January 21, 2026 Sylvia Ratnasamy named 2025 ACM Fellow The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) has named Sylvia Ratnasamy, Professor of Computer Science at UC Berkeley, to its 2025 class of ACM Fellows. Ratnasamy is being recognized “for contributions to networks and networked systems.” Ratnasamy is widely known for her seminal work on… 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 140 Next Page » View Open Faculty Positions [news?field eecs news topics target id entityreference filter=60] in this year’s prestigious Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Awards. Student Recognition Nominator Victoria Phelps Finalist Dan Garcia Tyler Hou Honorable Mention Max Willsey Kelly Tou Honorable Mention Kris Pister The CRA noted that… January 21, 2026 Sylvia Ratnasamy named 2025 ACM Fellow The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) has named Sylvia Ratnasamy, Professor of Computer Science at UC Berkeley, to its 2025 class of ACM Fellows. Ratnasamy is being recognized “for contributions to networks and networked systems.” Ratnasamy is widely known for her seminal work on… 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 140 Next Page » View Open Faculty Positions [Courses CS194 4584] Course: CS194_4584 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses CS194_4584 CS 194-172. Computational Genomics Catalog Description: Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Computer Science Division announcements. Units: 1.0-4.0 Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Formats: Fall: 1.0-4.0 hours of lecture per week Spring: 1.0-4.0 hours of lecture per week Summer: 2.0-8.0 hours of lecture per week Grading basis: letter Final exam status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Class Schedule (Fall 2021): TuTh 12:30PM - 1:59PM, Etcheverry 3111 – Nilah Monnier Ioannidis Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing [research bears faculty] using data-driven techniques to tackle problems where large quantities of unlabeled visual data are readily available. Alyosha received his PhD in 2003 from UC Berkeley. He is a recipient of CVPR Best Paper Award (2006), NSF CAREER award (2006), Sloan Fellowship (2008), Guggenheim Fellowship (2008), Okawa Grant (2008), Finmeccanica Career Development Chair (2010), SIGGRAPH Significant New Researcher Award (2010), ECCV Best Paper Honorable Mention (2010), and the Helmholtz Test-of-Time Prize (2013). Benjamin Recht Associate Prof. Recht was previously an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ben received his B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Chicago, and received a M.S. and PhD from the MIT Media Laboratory. After completing his doctoral work, he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Center for the Mathematics of Information at Caltech. Stuart Russell Prof. Russell received his B.A. with first-class honours in physics from Oxford University in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford in 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor [book 2019 faculty listgarten] was at Microsoft Research and before that, earned a PhD in the machine learning group at the University of Toronto. Her expertise is in machine learning, applied statistics and computational biology. She is interested in both methods development as well as application of methods to enable new insight into basic biology and medicine. Current areas of interest include: computational methods for protein design/engineering for properties such as expression, fluorescence, binding, stability, etc.; similar methods applied to molecule design; drug repositioning and discovery; machine learning methods development, and in particular at the intersection of graphical models, neural networks and variational inference, as well as inverting black box probabilistic functions to perform input optimization of probabilistic functions; genetic association studies with complex, high-dimensional traits such as image volumes over time. < BEARS 2019: Yun Song BEARS 2019: Michael Lustig > View Open Faculty Positions [book faculty] using data-driven techniques to tackle problems where large quantities of unlabeled visual data are readily available. Alyosha received his PhD in 2003 from UC Berkeley. He is a recipient of CVPR Best Paper Award (2006), NSF CAREER award (2006), Sloan Fellowship (2008), Guggenheim Fellowship (2008), Okawa Grant (2008), Finmeccanica Career Development Chair (2010), SIGGRAPH Significant New Researcher Award (2010), ECCV Best Paper Honorable Mention (2010), and the Helmholtz Test-of-Time Prize (2013). Benjamin Recht Associate Prof. Recht was previously an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ben received his B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Chicago, and received a M.S. and PhD from the MIT Media Laboratory. After completing his doctoral work, he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Center for the Mathematics of Information at Caltech. Stuart Russell Prof. Russell received his B.A. with first-class honours in physics from Oxford University in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford in 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor
[people students awards] Student Awards - EECS at Berkeley 2022 Samuel Silver Scholarship winner Lucas Spangher performing at the EECS Student Awards ceremony EECS Student Awards Each year the EECS Student Awards Committee selects winners for each of our department awards, many based on nominations gathered from EECS students, faculty and staff. Submit a Nomination The 2025-26 Student Award Nomination Period is Open We invite nominations from EECS faculty, students, and staff for the EECS student awards. OGSI/EECS Outstanding TA Awards : Call for nominations open on Monday, 2/9/26; The deadline is 2/18/26 . All other Department awards : Call for nominations will open on 2/20/26; The deadline is 3/5/26 . Submit your nominations here . Nominate deserving students for this year’s student awards Nomination Procedure Compose a letter (approximately 1 page) for each nominee explaining your reason for recommending the student. Nominators should specifically address how the nominee meets the award criteria. Attach any relevant materials that will assist the Student Awards Committee in making their decision, such as publications, CVs, and additional letters of nomination. In addition to a letter, you may request the nominee to upload their resume and transcript to the nomination. Faculty support letters are highly recommended. The [Students Awards 13] EECS Outstanding TA Awards We invite the faculty to nominate approximately the top nine percent of our GSIs and TAs from Spring, Summer and Fall semesters of the previous calendar year. From these, our Student Awards committee selects a subset for our departmental Outstanding TA awards. The remainder will be considered for nomination for the campus award. We have a large department with hundreds of GSIs/TAs per semester. These students serve roles of administration; support design content; support diversity, equity and inclusion; support struggling students; author and support projects; create course innovation; go above-and-beyond in answering questions online, and more. Faculty are encouraged to surface the roles TAs play on their staff website, so that if an experience is truly wonderful, students know whom to thank. Recommenders are encouraged to look beyond the traditional roles when recommending their TAs, and to be explicit in their nomination letter to highlight the things the TA did that were noteworthy. Students selected for the campus award are recognized by the campus in their Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Awards. Those selected for the EECS Outstanding TA Award are recognized at the EECS Student Award Ceremony. Awardees 2024-2025 Sebastian Arevalo, Anish Dhanashekar, Aryan Jain, James [Students Awards] Student Awards - EECS at Berkeley 2022 Samuel Silver Scholarship winner Lucas Spangher performing at the EECS Student Awards ceremony EECS Student Awards Each year the EECS Student Awards Committee selects winners for each of our department awards, many based on nominations gathered from EECS students, faculty and staff. Submit a Nomination The 2025-26 Student Award Nomination Period is Open We invite nominations from EECS faculty, students, and staff for the EECS student awards. OGSI/EECS Outstanding TA Awards : Call for nominations open on Monday, 2/9/26; The deadline is 2/18/26 . All other Department awards : Call for nominations will open on 2/20/26; The deadline is 3/5/26 . Submit your nominations here . Nominate deserving students for this year’s student awards Nomination Procedure Compose a letter (approximately 1 page) for each nominee explaining your reason for recommending the student. Nominators should specifically address how the nominee meets the award criteria. Attach any relevant materials that will assist the Student Awards Committee in making their decision, such as publications, CVs, and additional letters of nomination. In addition to a letter, you may request the nominee to upload their resume and transcript to the nomination. Faculty support letters are highly recommended. The [Students Awards] our Student Awards committee selects a subset for our departmental Outstanding TA awards. The remainder will be considered for nomination for the campus award. We have a large department with hundreds of GSIs/TAs per semester. These students serve roles of administration; support design content; support diversity, equity and inclusion; support struggling students; author and support projects; create course innovation; go above-and-beyond in answering questions online, and more. Faculty are encouraged to surface the roles TAs play on their staff website, so that if an experience is truly wonderful, students know whom to thank. Recommenders are encouraged to look beyond the traditional roles when recommending their TAs, and to be explicit in their nomination letter to highlight the things the TA did that were noteworthy. Students selected for the campus award are recognized by the campus in their Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Awards. Those selected for the EECS Outstanding TA Award are recognized at the EECS Student Award Ceremony. Awardees 2024-2025 Sebastian Arevalo, Anish Dhanashekar, Aryan Jain, James Smith, Jedidiah Tsang, Mingyang Wang, Oliver Yu 2023-2024 Rohit Agarwal, Akshit Dewan, Christine Fang, Rosalie Fang, Alec Li, Vedansh Malhotra, Ayush Pancholy, Shreyas Swaminathan, Victoria Tuck, Junyang Wang 2022-2023 Yousef Helal, Federico Mora, [Students Awards nominations] Student Award Nominations The EECS Department invites nominations annually from faculty, students and staff for these undergraduate and graduate awards. Please take the time to consider nominating deserving students for this year's student awards. Nomination Procedure Compose a letter (approximately 1 page) for each nominee explaining your reason for recommending the student. Nominators should specifically address how the nominee meets the award criteria. Attach any relevant materials that will assist the Student Awards Committee in making their decision, such as publications, CVs, and additional letters of nomination. In addition to a letter, you may request the nominee to upload their resume and transcript to the nomination. Faculty support letters are highly recommended. The committee may seek additional information concerning the most promising nominees. Previous award recipients are ineligible to receive the same award again but may be recommended for any remaining awards. Nominators are encouraged to refer to the description of each award , which includes a list of previous awardees. Self-nominations with no nomination letter or supporting documentation are discouraged. Submit a Nomination Undergraduate Awards Academic Achievement Arthur M. Hopkin Award This award honors an outstanding Electrical Engineering undergraduate who demonstrates seriousness of purpose and high academic achievement. To [Students Awards nominations] awardees. Self-nominations with no nomination letter or supporting documentation are discouraged. Submit a Nomination Undergraduate Awards Academic Achievement Arthur M. Hopkin Award This award honors an outstanding Electrical Engineering undergraduate who demonstrates seriousness of purpose and high academic achievement. To be used by the student for furthering their education. Breadth Samuel Silver Memorial Scholarship Award Presented annually to an Electrical Engineering or Computer Sciences undergraduate or graduate student who best combines intellectual achievement in science and engineering with serious humanistic and cultural interests. Previous recipients possessed outstanding accomplishments in music, art, and other areas of the humanities. Design Warren Y. Dere Design Award This award is presented to graduating seniors whose accomplishments in engineering design are judged to be most outstanding. Evidence might include accomplishments during a co-op or internship assignment or on a summer job, or achievements on a project for an upper division design course. GSI EECS Outstanding TA Awards Each year the department selects students who served as the most distinguished Graduate Student Instructors during the previous calendar year. Students are selected based on faculty nominations and student ratings provided by the UC Berkeley chapters Eta Kappa Nu (HKN) and IEEE. Innovation Timothy B. Campbell Innovation Award [people students awards] Committee in making their decision, such as publications, CVs, and additional letters of nomination. In addition to a letter, you may request the nominee to upload their resume and transcript to the nomination. Faculty support letters are highly recommended. The committee may seek additional information about the most promising nominees. Previous award recipients are ineligible to receive the same award again but may be recommended for any remaining awards. Nominators are encouraged to refer to the description of each award , which includes a list of previous awardees. Self-nominations with no nomination letter or supporting documentation are discouraged. List of Awards The following awards recognize and honor the ability and character of our students. Each award page includes a list of past awardees and a description of the award’s history and purpose. Demetri Angelakos Memorial Achievement Award Timothy B. Campbell Innovation Award Departmental Citation Warren Y. Dere Design Award EECS Outstanding TA Awards Art and Mary Fong Undergraduate Scholarship Jim and Donna Gray Endowment Award Arthur M. Hopkin Award Eli Jury Award Eugene L. Lawler Prize Tong Leong Lim Pre-Doctoral Prize C.V. & Daulat Ramamoorthy Distinguished Research Award Sevin Rosen Funds Award for Innovation David J. Sakrison Memorial Prize Samuel [Students Awards 13] the campus award are recognized by the campus in their Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Awards. Those selected for the EECS Outstanding TA Award are recognized at the EECS Student Award Ceremony. Awardees 2024-2025 Sebastian Arevalo, Anish Dhanashekar, Aryan Jain, James Smith, Jedidiah Tsang, Mingyang Wang, Oliver Yu 2023-2024 Rohit Agarwal, Akshit Dewan, Christine Fang, Rosalie Fang, Alec Li, Vedansh Malhotra, Ayush Pancholy, Shreyas Swaminathan, Victoria Tuck, Junyang Wang 2022-2023 Yousef Helal, Federico Mora, Druv Pai, Fuzail Shakir, Tarang Srivastava, Alvin Tan, Parker Ziegler 2021-2022 Murtaza Ali, Maxwell Chen, Divija Hasteer, Victor Huang, Sohum Hulyalkar, Alexander Kassil, Rachel Lawrence, Kaitlyn Lee, Alicia Matsumoto, Connor McMahon, Richard Roggenkemper, Naomi Sagan, Moses Won, Albert Xu 2020-2021 Rahul Arya, Catherine Cang, Raghav Gupta, Amanda Jackson, Peyrin Kao, Jack Kolb, Connor Lafferty, Caroline Liu, Sarika Madhvapathy, BEN MILDENHALL, Zephyr Omaly, Anmol Parande, Andrew Phuong, Vron Vance, Kellyann Ye, Cecilia Zhang 2019-2020 Dominic Carrano, Karina Chang, Kavi Gupta, Michelle Hwang, Lakshya Jain, Stephan Kaminsky, Suraj Rampure, Mansi Shah, Itai Smith, Alex Stennet, Annie Tang, Derek Wan, Titan Yuan 2018-2019 Kevin Lin, Kieran Peleaux 2017-2018 Daniel Aranki, Samuel Lau, Vasuki Narasimha Swamy 2016-2017 Kabir Chandrasekher, Sinho Chewi, Sherdil Niyaz, Jon Tamir 2015-2016 Filip Maksimovic, Rohin Shah, Patrick [Students Awards] Committee in making their decision, such as publications, CVs, and additional letters of nomination. In addition to a letter, you may request the nominee to upload their resume and transcript to the nomination. Faculty support letters are highly recommended. The committee may seek additional information about the most promising nominees. Previous award recipients are ineligible to receive the same award again but may be recommended for any remaining awards. Nominators are encouraged to refer to the description of each award , which includes a list of previous awardees. Self-nominations with no nomination letter or supporting documentation are discouraged. List of Awards The following awards recognize and honor the ability and character of our students. Each award page includes a list of past awardees and a description of the award’s history and purpose. Demetri Angelakos Memorial Achievement Award Timothy B. Campbell Innovation Award Departmental Citation Warren Y. Dere Design Award EECS Outstanding TA Awards Art and Mary Fong Undergraduate Scholarship Jim and Donna Gray Endowment Award Arthur M. Hopkin Award Eli Jury Award Eugene L. Lawler Prize Tong Leong Lim Pre-Doctoral Prize C.V. & Daulat Ramamoorthy Distinguished Research Award Sevin Rosen Funds Award for Innovation David J. Sakrison Memorial Prize Samuel
[news pieter abbeel wins 2021 acm prize computing] in the new field of deep reinforcement learning, which can solve far more complex problems than computer programs developed with reinforcement learning alone. These contributions have formed the foundation of contemporary robotics and continue to drive the future of the field. Abbeel is also the Co-Founder, President and Chief Scientist at AI robotics company Covariant. The ACM Prize in Computing The award carries a prize of $250,000, from an endowment provided by Infosys Ltd. Categories Faculty Honors Research View Open Faculty Positions [research bears faculty] College, London, 1993, and a Ph.D. in EECS, U.C. Berkeley, 1998. Holder of the Charles A. Desoer Chair in Engineering. Pieter Abbeel – “Deep Learning for Robotics” Associate Prof. Abbeel received a BS/MS in Electrical Engineering from KU Leuven (Belgium) and received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2008. He joined the faculty at UC Berkeley in Fall 2008, with an appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. His research focuses on robotics, machine learning and control. Daniel Klein – “Conversational AI” Prof. Klein’s research focuses on statistical natural language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation. For specific projects and publications, see his group’s webpage. He received his BA in Math, CS, Linguistics (summa cum laude) from Cornell University (1994-1998); an M.St. in Linguistics from Oxford University (1998-1999); and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University (1999-2004). Michel Maharbiz – “Recent Advances in Neural Dust, a platform for peripheral and central nervous system recording” Prof. Maharbiz’ current research centers on building micro/nano interfaces to cells and organisms and exploring bio-derived fabrication methods. His research group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely [news pieter abbeel interviewed featured acm member] Pieter Abbeel interviewed as Featured ACM Member - EECS at Berkeley CS Prof. Pieter Abbeel has been interviewed as a Featured ACM Member. As part of the “People of ACM” bulletin, Abbeel details the groundbreaking work that led to his 2021 ACM Prize in Computing, and the direction of the field of AI and robotics in the warehousing industry and beyond. Given the different specializations required to pursue AI, he gives the following advice to the next generation of AI researchers: “In terms of foundations, basic mathematics such as calculus, probability, linear algebra are very important, and also optimization,” said Abbeel. “Taking physics classes can be very helpful, as it teaches you the skill of abstracting real world problem settings into equations.” Prof. Abbeel is the director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and co-director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research (BAIR) lab, in addition to Co-Founder, President, and Chief Scientist of Covariant, a Berkeley-based AI robotics company. Categories Education Faculty Industry View Open Faculty Positions [news pieter abbeel wins 2021 acm prize computing] Pieter Abbeel wins 2021 ACM Prize in Computing - EECS at Berkeley EECS Prof. Pieter Abbeel is the recipient of the 2021 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Prize in Computing. This award recognizes an early to mid-career computer scientist whose has made “a fundamental innovative contribution in computing that, through its depth, impact and broad implications, exemplifies the greatest achievements in the discipline.” Abbeel is known for his pioneering approaches to robot learning, including teaching robots through human demonstration (“apprenticeship learning”) and through their own trial and error (“reinforcement learning”). He has created robots that can perform surgical suturing, detect objects, and plan their trajectories in uncertain situations. More recently, he introduced “few-shot imitation learning,” where a robot is able to learn to perform a task from just one demonstration after having been pre-trained with a large set of demonstrations on related tasks. He is also credited with the innovation of combining reinforcement learning with deep neural networks to usher in the new field of deep reinforcement learning, which can solve far more complex problems than computer programs developed with reinforcement learning alone. These contributions have formed the foundation of contemporary robotics and continue to drive the future of the [news pieter abbeel stresses cooperation key advancing ai application] Pieter Abbeel stresses cooperation key to advancing AI application - EECS at Berkeley CS. Prof. Pieter Abbeel is the subject of a China Daily article titled “Professor stresses cooperation key to advancing AI application.” Abbeel attended the China-US Entrepreneur and Investment Summit in Santa Clara where he discussed recent advances and trends in artificial intelligence (AI) and applications in robotic automation, calling for more collaboration worldwide in order to make robots ultimately serve the people. “The articles of our research findings are in archives,” he said. “Anyone can read it. There are also three important global deep-learning conferences so you can present your work and meet people in the AI field worldwide.” Categories Faculty Research View Open Faculty Positions [Faculty Homepages abbeel] Pieter Abbeel: Faculty Home Page Larger Photo Pieter Abbeel Professor Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Contact Information 746 Sutardja Dai Hall tel: (510) 642-7034 fax: (510) 643-1534 pabbeel@cs.berkeley.edu Office Hours arrange via email Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Research Support Blake Greenwood bgreenwood@berkeley.edu Biography Professor Pieter Abbeel is Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Abbeel’s research strives to build ever more intelligent systems, which has his lab push the frontiers of deep reinforcement learning, deep imitation learning, deep unsupervised learning, transfer learning, meta-learning, and learning to learn, as well as study the influence of AI on society. His lab also investigates how AI could advance other science and engineering disciplines. Abbeel's Intro to AI class has been taken by over 100K students through edX, and his Deep RL and Deep Unsupervised Learning materials are standard references for AI researchers. Abbeel has founded three companies: Gradescope (AI to help teachers with grading homework and exams), Covariant (AI for robotic automation of warehouses and factories), and Berkeley Open Arms (low-cost, highly capable 7-dof robot arms), advises many AI and robotics start-ups, [Faculty Homepages abbeel] Pieter Abbeel: Faculty Home Page Larger Photo Pieter Abbeel Professor Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Contact Information 746 Sutardja Dai Hall tel: (510) 642-7034 fax: (510) 643-1534 pabbeel@cs.berkeley.edu Office Hours arrange via email Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Research Support Blake Greenwood bgreenwood@berkeley.edu Biography Professor Pieter Abbeel is Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Abbeel’s research strives to build ever more intelligent systems, which has his lab push the frontiers of deep reinforcement learning, deep imitation learning, deep unsupervised learning, transfer learning, meta-learning, and learning to learn, as well as study the influence of AI on society. His lab also investigates how AI could advance other science and engineering disciplines. Abbeel's Intro to AI class has been taken by over 100K students through edX, and his Deep RL and Deep Unsupervised Learning materials are standard references for AI researchers. Abbeel has founded three companies: Gradescope (AI to help teachers with grading homework and exams), Covariant (AI for robotic automation of warehouses and factories), and Berkeley Open Arms (low-cost, highly capable 7-dof robot arms), advises many AI and robotics start-ups, [research bears faculty] joint appointments. Joseph Hellerstein – Vice Chair, External Relations Prof. Hellerstein’s work focuses on data-centric systems and the way they drive computing. He is an ACM Fellow, an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow and the recipient of two ACM-SIGMOD “Test of Time” awards for his research. In 2010, Fortune Magazine included him in their list of 50 smartest people in technology , and MIT’s Technology Review magazine included his work on Distributed Programming on their 2010 TR10 list of the 10 technologies “most likely to change our world”. Key ideas from his research have been incorporated into commercial and open- source software from IBM, Oracle, and PostgreSQL. He is a past director of Intel Research Berkeley, and currently serves on the technical advisory boards of a number of computing and Internet companies. Speakers Claire Tomlin – “Safe Learning in Robotics” Prof. Tomlin received her B.A.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Waterloo, 1992, a M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering, Imperial College, London, 1993, and a Ph.D. in EECS, U.C. Berkeley, 1998. Holder of the Charles A. Desoer Chair in Engineering. Pieter Abbeel – “Deep Learning for Robotics” Associate Prof. Abbeel received a BS/MS in Electrical Engineering from KU Leuven (Belgium) [research bears faculty] Dust, a platform for peripheral and central nervous system recording” Prof. Maharbiz’ current research centers on building micro/nano interfaces to cells and organisms and exploring bio-derived fabrication methods. His research group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely radio-controlled cyborg beetles; this was named one of the top 10 emerging technologies of 2009 by MIT’s Technology Review (TR10) and was among Time magazine’s Top 50 Inventions of 2009. His long-term goal is understanding developmental mechanisms as a way to engineer and fabricate machines. He received his Ph.D. in 2003 from UC Berkeley for his work on microbioreactor systems, which led to the foundation of Microreactor Technologies Inc., which was recently acquired by Pall Corporation. He has been a GE Scholar and an Intel IMAP Fellow. Panel 1 Self Driving Cars: Is Autonomous Driving AI-Complete? Trevor Darrell Residence Prof. Darrell’s group develops algorithms to enable visual recognition across a variety of platforms and applications. His interests include computer vision, machine learning, computer graphics, and perception-based human computer interfaces. Prof. Darrell was on the faculty of the MIT EECS department from 1999-2008. He received the S.M. and Ph.D. degrees from MIT in 1992 and 1996, respectively. He obtained the B.S.E.
[book faculty] College, London, 1993, and a Ph.D. in EECS, U.C. Berkeley, 1998. Holder of the Charles A. Desoer Chair in Engineering. Pieter Abbeel – “Deep Learning for Robotics” Associate Prof. Abbeel received a BS/MS in Electrical Engineering from KU Leuven (Belgium) and received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2008. He joined the faculty at UC Berkeley in Fall 2008, with an appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. His research focuses on robotics, machine learning and control. Daniel Klein – “Conversational AI” Prof. Klein’s research focuses on statistical natural language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation. For specific projects and publications, see his group’s webpage. He received his BA in Math, CS, Linguistics (summa cum laude) from Cornell University (1994-1998); an M.St. in Linguistics from Oxford University (1998-1999); and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University (1999-2004). Michel Maharbiz – “Recent Advances in Neural Dust, a platform for peripheral and central nervous system recording” Prof. Maharbiz’ current research centers on building micro/nano interfaces to cells and organisms and exploring bio-derived fabrication methods. His research group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely [research colloquium from theory phd to startup land] From Theory PhD to Startup Land - EECS at Berkeley From Theory PhD to Startup Land Lars Rasmussen gives his talk “From Theory PhD to Startup Land” on Sept. 4, 2024. EECS Colloquium Wednesday, September 4, 2024 310 Sutardja Dai Hall (Banatao Auditorium) 2:00 – 3:00 pm Lars Rasmussen Tech entrepreneur, software engineer, angel investor As a 2024 EECS Distinguished Alumni Award recipient , Dr. Rasmussen will be presented with his award at this session. Abstract On this super flattering occasion I get to tell the story of my career since graduating in 1998 with a theory PhD: working at Mike Luby’s startup Digital Fountain; co-founding the startup that became Google Maps; the spectacular failure of Google Wave; seed investing in Australian Canva; and now mostly angel investing around the world from sunny Greece. Oh and Go Bears! Biography Lars Rasmussen is an angel investor and startup advisor based in Athens, Greece. Lars holds a Ph.D. in theoretical computer science from UC Berkeley in California. In 2004, Lars and his brother Jens sold their mapping startup Where 2 Tech to Google. Lars became the lead engineer on the team that created Google Maps from Where 2’s technology. Lars was next [research colloquium archives fall2024 from theory phd to startup land] From Theory PhD to Startup Land - EECS at Berkeley From Theory PhD to Startup Land Lars Rasmussen gives his talk “From Theory PhD to Startup Land” on Sept. 4, 2024. EECS Colloquium Wednesday, September 4, 2024 310 Sutardja Dai Hall (Banatao Auditorium) 2:00 – 3:00 pm Lars Rasmussen Tech entrepreneur, software engineer, angel investor As a 2024 EECS Distinguished Alumni Award recipient , Dr. Rasmussen will be presented with his award at this session. Abstract On this super flattering occasion I get to tell the story of my career since graduating in 1998 with a theory PhD: working at Mike Luby’s startup Digital Fountain; co-founding the startup that became Google Maps; the spectacular failure of Google Wave; seed investing in Australian Canva; and now mostly angel investing around the world from sunny Greece. Oh and Go Bears! Biography Lars Rasmussen is an angel investor and startup advisor based in Athens, Greece. Lars holds a Ph.D. in theoretical computer science from UC Berkeley in California. In 2004, Lars and his brother Jens sold their mapping startup Where 2 Tech to Google. Lars became the lead engineer on the team that created Google Maps from Where 2’s technology. Lars was next [Faculty Homepages klein?source=post page] Daniel Klein | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home People Faculty Daniel Klein Larger Photo Info Links Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, Machine Learning Research Centers Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Biography Professor Klein's research focuses on statistical natural language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation. For specific projects and publications, see his group's webpage . He received his BA in Math, CS, Linguistics (summa cum laude) from Cornell University (1994-1998); an M.St. in Linguistics from Oxford University (1998-1999); and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University (1999-2004). Recent honors and awards include the ACM's Grace Murray Hopper Award, the Sloan Research Fellowship, the NSF CAREER Award, and the Microsoft New Faculty Fellowship. He was awarded the Computer Science Division's Jim and Donna Gray Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching in 2009, and UC Berkeley's Distinguished Teaching Award in 2010, and the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching in 2011. He has won best paper awards with co-authors at NAACL 2010 for "Coreference Resolution in a Modular, Entity-Centered Model," at ACL 2009 for "K-Best A* Parsing," at NAACL 2006 for [Faculty Homepages klein?source=post page] Daniel Klein | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home People Faculty Daniel Klein Larger Photo Info Links Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, Machine Learning Research Centers Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Teaching Schedule Spring 2022 CS 288. Natural Language Processing , TuTh 11:00AM - 12:29PM, Soda 306 Biography Professor Klein's research focuses on statistical natural language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation. For specific projects and publications, see his group's webpage . He received his BA in Math, CS, Linguistics (summa cum laude) from Cornell University (1994-1998); an M.St. in Linguistics from Oxford University (1998-1999); and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University (1999-2004). Recent honors and awards include the ACM's Grace Murray Hopper Award, the Sloan Research Fellowship, the NSF CAREER Award, and the Microsoft New Faculty Fellowship. He was awarded the Computer Science Division's Jim and Donna Gray Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching in 2009, and UC Berkeley's Distinguished Teaching Award in 2010, and the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching in 2011. He has won best paper awards with co-authors at NAACL 2010 for "Coreference Resolution [research bears faculty] College, London, 1993, and a Ph.D. in EECS, U.C. Berkeley, 1998. Holder of the Charles A. Desoer Chair in Engineering. Pieter Abbeel – “Deep Learning for Robotics” Associate Prof. Abbeel received a BS/MS in Electrical Engineering from KU Leuven (Belgium) and received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2008. He joined the faculty at UC Berkeley in Fall 2008, with an appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. His research focuses on robotics, machine learning and control. Daniel Klein – “Conversational AI” Prof. Klein’s research focuses on statistical natural language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation. For specific projects and publications, see his group’s webpage. He received his BA in Math, CS, Linguistics (summa cum laude) from Cornell University (1994-1998); an M.St. in Linguistics from Oxford University (1998-1999); and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University (1999-2004). Michel Maharbiz – “Recent Advances in Neural Dust, a platform for peripheral and central nervous system recording” Prof. Maharbiz’ current research centers on building micro/nano interfaces to cells and organisms and exploring bio-derived fabrication methods. His research group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely [news john denero named cdss associate dean undergraduate studies] John DeNero named CDSS Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies - EECS at Berkeley EECS alumnus and Associate Teaching Prof. John DeNero (CS Ph.D. ’10, advisor: Dan Klein) has been named the new Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies in the Division of Computing, Data Science, and Society (CDSS). DeNero earned a B.S. in Mathematical & Computational Science and Symbolic Systems, and an M.A. in Philosophy, from Stanford before coming to Berkeley. After receiving his doctorate, he took a job as a Senior Research Scientist at Google where he worked on Google Translate and natural language processing. He came back to campus in 2014 to focus on teaching and education. His work at Berkeley has centered on facilitating large-scale delivery of computing content, and he co-developed and teaches two of the largest courses on campus: CS 61A and Data 8. He has been honored with the UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award (2018), the Jim and Donna Gray Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching of Computer Science (2017), the Diane S. McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching Computer Science (2016), and the Tau Beta Pi Outstanding Faculty of the Year Award (2015). He has served as the EECS vice chair for undergraduate matters, [research colloquium archives fall2024 from theory phd to startup land] from UC Berkeley in California. In 2004, Lars and his brother Jens sold their mapping startup Where 2 Tech to Google. Lars became the lead engineer on the team that created Google Maps from Where 2’s technology. Lars was next a director of engineering at Facebook in Menlo Park and London. His favorite investments include Canva, Astranis, Chiaro, Neara, and Protio. In his copious spare time, he enjoys boating the Greek Islands, kitesurfing, and coffee. Research Department Colloquium Series EECS Department Colloquium Series Archive Berkeley EECS Annual Research Symposium (BEARS) Archive View Open Faculty Positions [book faculty] joint appointments. Joseph Hellerstein – Vice Chair, External Relations Prof. Hellerstein’s work focuses on data-centric systems and the way they drive computing. He is an ACM Fellow, an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow and the recipient of two ACM-SIGMOD “Test of Time” awards for his research. In 2010, Fortune Magazine included him in their list of 50 smartest people in technology , and MIT’s Technology Review magazine included his work on Distributed Programming on their 2010 TR10 list of the 10 technologies “most likely to change our world”. Key ideas from his research have been incorporated into commercial and open- source software from IBM, Oracle, and PostgreSQL. He is a past director of Intel Research Berkeley, and currently serves on the technical advisory boards of a number of computing and Internet companies. Speakers Claire Tomlin – “Safe Learning in Robotics” Prof. Tomlin received her B.A.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Waterloo, 1992, a M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering, Imperial College, London, 1993, and a Ph.D. in EECS, U.C. Berkeley, 1998. Holder of the Charles A. Desoer Chair in Engineering. Pieter Abbeel – “Deep Learning for Robotics” Associate Prof. Abbeel received a BS/MS in Electrical Engineering from KU Leuven (Belgium) [book faculty] Dust, a platform for peripheral and central nervous system recording” Prof. Maharbiz’ current research centers on building micro/nano interfaces to cells and organisms and exploring bio-derived fabrication methods. His research group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely radio-controlled cyborg beetles; this was named one of the top 10 emerging technologies of 2009 by MIT’s Technology Review (TR10) and was among Time magazine’s Top 50 Inventions of 2009. His long-term goal is understanding developmental mechanisms as a way to engineer and fabricate machines. He received his Ph.D. in 2003 from UC Berkeley for his work on microbioreactor systems, which led to the foundation of Microreactor Technologies Inc., which was recently acquired by Pall Corporation. He has been a GE Scholar and an Intel IMAP Fellow. Panel 1 Self Driving Cars: Is Autonomous Driving AI-Complete? Trevor Darrell Residence Prof. Darrell’s group develops algorithms to enable visual recognition across a variety of platforms and applications. His interests include computer vision, machine learning, computer graphics, and perception-based human computer interfaces. Prof. Darrell was on the faculty of the MIT EECS department from 1999-2008. He received the S.M. and Ph.D. degrees from MIT in 1992 and 1996, respectively. He obtained the B.S.E. [research colloquium from theory phd to startup land] from UC Berkeley in California. In 2004, Lars and his brother Jens sold their mapping startup Where 2 Tech to Google. Lars became the lead engineer on the team that created Google Maps from Where 2’s technology. Lars was next a director of engineering at Facebook in Menlo Park and London. His favorite investments include Canva, Astranis, Chiaro, Neara, and Protio. In his copious spare time, he enjoys boating the Greek Islands, kitesurfing, and coffee. Research Department Colloquium Series EECS Department Colloquium Series Archive Berkeley EECS Annual Research Symposium (BEARS) Archive View Open Faculty Positions
[Courses EE194] EE 194. Special Topics Catalog Description: Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Electrical Engineering announcements. Units: 1-4 Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Formats: Fall: 1.0-4.0 hours of lecture per week Spring: 1.0-4.0 hours of lecture per week Grading Basis: letter Final Exam Status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Class Schedule (Spring 2026): EE 194/290-7 – TuTh 11:00-12:29, Cory 540AB – Kristofer S J Pister , Sophia Shao Class Notes To be considered for enrollment please complete the form here >> NEW SPRING 2026 Link: https://forms.gle/xd7BPB9yeHrUHSCv9 EE 194-100 – TuTh 14:00-15:29, Cory 540AB – Jean-Paul Tennant Class Notes **THIS COURSE DOES NOT COUNT TOWARDS EECS OR CS UPPER DIVISION TECH REQUIREMENTS** Priority enrollment to be given to students approaching graduation EE 194-16/290-16 – TuTh 09:30-10:59, Cory 521 – Anant Sahai , Jiantao Jiao Class Notes Prerequisites: CS 182/282A Links: EECS Course Archives (CalNet authentication required) CS enrollment policies EE enrollment policies HKN course maps [Courses EE197] EE 197. Field Study Catalog Description: Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation. Units: 1-4 Prerequisites: Consent of instructor (see department adviser). Formats: Summer: 2-7.5 hours of fieldwork per week Spring: 1-4 hours of fieldwork per week Fall: 1-4 hours of fieldwork per week Summer: 2.5-10 hours of fieldwork per week Grading Basis: passFail Final Exam Status: No final exam Class Schedule (Spring 2026): EE 197-30 – Kristofer S J Pister , Sophia Shao EE 197-31 – Miki Lustig Links: EECS Course Archives (CalNet authentication required) CS enrollment policies EE enrollment policies HKN course maps [Courses EE39 2893] Course: EE39_2893 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses EE39_2893 EE 39-001. Hands-on Ham Radio Catalog Description: Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester. Enrollment limits are set by the faculty, but the suggested limit is 25. Units: 2.0-4.0 Prerequisites: Priority given to freshmen and sophomores. Formats: Fall: 2.0-4.0 hours of seminar per week Spring: 2.0-4.0 hours of seminar per week Grading basis: completedNotation Final exam status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Also listed as: EL ENG 39 Class Schedule (Fall 2021): We 10:00AM - 11:59AM, Cory 531 – Michael Lustig Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing [Courses EE84 4461] Course: EE84_4461 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses EE84_4461 EE 84-001. Fun with Ham Radio Catalog Description: Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores. Prerequisites: At discretion of instructor. Formats: Fall: 1.5-3.0 hours of seminar per week Spring: 1.5-3.0 hours of seminar per week Summer: 1.5-3.5 hours of seminar per week Grading basis: completedNotation Final exam status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Also listed as: EL ENG 84 Class Schedule (Spring 2021): Mo 6:00PM - 7:59PM, Internet/Online – Michael Lustig , Michael W. Zuerch Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing [Courses EE84 4731] Course: EE84_4731 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses EE84_4731 EE 84-002. Ham Radio Catalog Description: Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores. Prerequisites: At discretion of instructor. Formats: Fall: 1.5-3.0 hours of seminar per week Spring: 1.5-3.0 hours of seminar per week Summer: 1.5-3.5 hours of seminar per week Grading basis: completedNotation Final exam status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Also listed as: EL ENG 84 Class Schedule (Spring 2022): We 4:00PM - 6:59PM, Cory 531 – Michael Lustig , Michael W. Zuerch Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing [Courses EECS206B] discussion, and 3.0 hours of laboratory per week Spring: 3.0 hours of lecture, 1.0 hours of discussion, and 3.0 hours of laboratory per week Grading basis: letter Final exam status: No final exam Class Schedule (Spring 2019): TuTh 11:00AM - 12:29PM, Cory 521 – Ruzena Bajcsy, Valmik Prabhu Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing [Courses EE84 2893] Course: EE84_2893 | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Home Academics Courses EE84_2893 EE 84-001. Hands-on Ham Radio Catalog Description: Sophomore seminars are small interactive courses offered by faculty members in departments all across the campus. Sophomore seminars offer opportunity for close, regular intellectual contact between faculty members and students in the crucial second year. The topics vary from department to department and semester to semester. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores. Prerequisites: At discretion of instructor. Formats: Fall: 1.0-2.0 hours of seminar per week Spring: 1.0-2.0 hours of seminar per week Summer: 1.5-3.5 hours of seminar per week Grading basis: completedNotation Final exam status: Written final exam conducted during the scheduled final exam period Also listed as: EL ENG 84 Class Schedule (Fall 2019): We 10:00AM - 11:59AM, Cory 531 – Michael Lustig Class homepage on inst.eecs General Catalog listing
[book phd coursework] In general, the outside minor is fulfilled when students meet the following criteria: a minimum of 6 semester units The courses must be taken for a letter grade The cumulative grade point average in the outside minor must be at least 3.0 At least one course must be a graduate-level course Only upper-division undergraduate courses (100-196) and graduate-level courses (200 – 296) are eligible Only one course can be cross-listed with the EECS department The outside minor program must have an orientation different from the major program and inside minor There are additional special criteria for students interested in pursuing an outside minor in Statistics or Teaching. More details of the outside minor can be found in the Graduate Handbook . Statistics (outside) minor The Teaching (outside) minor (updated October 2017) Please be advised that a minor consisting solely of Stat 201A (formerly Stat 200A) and Stat 243 is not considered acceptable. Students in areas of EECS with a strong background in probability, such as CS theory or EE systems, are recommended to take 2 graduate courses other than Stat 201A and 243, as they may find these courses insufficiently advanced for their purposes. Restricted courses for Statistics minor: Stat201A [book phd coursework] Numbers Please see the Current Term 299 Folder. Within each spreadsheet, there is an EE and CS tab. If you do not see your advisor’s section, please use the form on the first tab to request a section. If you have further questions, please email your staff advisor at grads-ee@berkeley.edu (EE) or grads-cs@berkeley.edu (CS) Please see the Current Term 297 Folder . Within each spreadsheet, there is an EE and CS tab. If you do not see your advisor’s section, please use the form on the first tab to request a section. IMPORTANT : These should only be used by international students planning to work off-campus during the summer semester. You will enroll in 0 units, and there will be a ~$450 administrative charge that you or your advisor will need to pay. If you have further questions, please email your staff advisor at grads-ee@berkeley.edu (EE) or grads-cs@berkeley.edu (CS) CS Schedule of Classes Online Schedule of Classes Forms Outside Minors In general, the outside minor is fulfilled when students meet the following criteria: a minimum of 6 semester units The courses must be taken for a letter grade The cumulative grade point average in the outside minor must be at [resources undergrads minors eecs] and Cal Tech in Electrical Engineering PhD program at UC Berkeley in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences PhD program at Johns Hopkins in Biomedical Engineering Masters of Business Administration program at UC Berkeley Senior Software Engineers at Tesla, Waymo, and Informatica Controls Engineer at Clear Motion Project Managers at Apple and Uber Software Engineers at Google, Twitter, Illumino Senior Data Scientist at SpaceX Administrative Processes Declaring the minor Students must declare the minor at least one semester before graduation. To declare, students should submit an EECS Minor Declaration Form once they have four or more of the minor requirements completed (your grades may still be pending). A minimum grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 is required to apply for the minor. Submit to: Floriberto Garcia, cs-advising@berkeley.edu Graduating with the minor Students must submit the EECS Minor Completion Form by the tenth week of their final semester. Students must maintain a cumulative and EECS GPA of at least 2.0 to graduate. Upon successful completion of the minor coursework and procedures, students will receive a notation in the memorandum section of their transcript. Policies to Note Students must be declared in a major other than Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences. Unfortunately, the [book policies degree phd coursework] (all grad (200 level) courses) 12+ 3.5+ Inside Minor (at least 1 grad (200 level) course) 6+ 3.0+ Outside Minor (at least 1 grad (200 level) course) 6+ 3.0+ All Ph.D. students must fulfill the Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) requirement. For students entering after Fall 2009, the requirement is 30 hours of GSI (with at least 20 hours of this being for undergrad courses). If you entered in Fall 2009 or before , you have the option of following the coursework and GSI requirements for post-2009 or meeting the following minimum course requirements combined with 20 hours of GSI (with at least 10 hrours being for undergrad courses). If You Entered in Fall 2009 or Earlier Degree Level Units GPA Major (all grad (200 level) courses) 16+ 3.5+ Inside Minor (at least 2 grad (200 level) course) 8+ 3.0+ Outside Minor (at least 2 grad (200 level) course) 8+ 3.0+ Major Subject Area A coherent program of graduate courses (200 level) or the equivalent, with a GPA of 3.5 or better, as approved by your Research Advisor, will satisfy the major requirement. Most students take considerably more than the minimum units in the major area. Minor Subject Areas The minor [book policies degree phd coursework] level) or the equivalent, with a GPA of 3.5 or better, as approved by your Research Advisor, will satisfy the major requirement. Most students take considerably more than the minimum units in the major area. Minor Subject Areas The minor subject areas requirement is typically met by taking 2 courses in a given area. At least one of the courses must be a graduate (200 level) course. The minor for your Ph.D. should provide broad support for the technical goals of your proposed dissertation research. There are 2 issues which you should consider when you are choosing specific courses for the minor: adequate technical content in the minor, and adequate breadth provided by the minor, as distinct from the major area. Ph.D. candidates, with the approval of their advisor, must choose courses for each of their minor subjects which meet the following criteria: Each minor program must have an orientation different from the major program, and the courses involved should contain concepts not present in the major program. At least one minor program must consist mainly of courses from outside the EECS Department. The Inside Minor may include one or more classes from outside the EECS department. The minor program [outside minors] Special Case Outside Minors - EECS at Berkeley Special Case Outside Minors In general the outside minor is fulfilled when students meet the following criteria: a minimum of 6 semester units the courses must be taken for a letter grade cumulative grade point average in the outside minor must be at least 3.0 at least one course must be a graduate level course only upper division undergraduate courses (100-196) and graduate level courses (200 – 296) are eligible only one course can be cross-listed with the EECS department the outside minor program must have an orientation different from the major program and inside minor There are additional special criteria for students interested in pursuing an outside minor in Statistics or Teaching. More details of the outside minor can be found in the Graduate Handbook . Statistics (outside) minor (updated October 2017) Please be advised that a minor consisting solely of Stat 201A (formerly Stat 200A) and Stat 243 is not considered acceptable. Students in areas of EECS with a strong background in probability such as CS theory or EE systems are recommended to take 2 graduate courses other than Stat 201A and 243, as they may find these courses insufficiently [resources undergrads minors eis] course may be used to simultaneously fulfill requirements for a student’s major and minor programs. Completion of the minor program cannot delay a student’s graduation. All students must declare the EIS Minor at least one semester before their final semester. EECS and L&S CS majors should not be pursuing an EIS minor. Students pursuing an EECS or CS minor will not be allowed an EIS minor. Minors do not receive enrollment priority in EE/EECS/CS classes. *Classes taken during Spring 2020, Fall 2020, and Spring 2021 may be taken for Pass/Not Pass. 3 Lower Division Requirements All courses must be taken for graded credit. EECS 16A: Designing Information Devices and Systems I – 4 units EECS 16B: Designing Information Devices and Systems II – 4 units Select from one of the following: COMPSCI 61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs – 4 units COMPSCI C8: Foundations of Data Science and COMPSCI 88: Computational Structures in Data Science – 7 units Application Process Review the requirement guidelines on this page before completing the steps below. Step 1 – Declaring the minor: Students interested in pursuing a minor must declare the minor no later than the term before their Expected Graduation Term [book phd coursework] with a grade of B+ or better: Theory: 270, 271, 273, 274, 276, 278, EE 227BT, EE 227C (EE courses added August 2023) AI: 280, 281A, 281B, 283, 285, 287, 288, 289A (CS285 was added in August 2022) Graphics/HCI: 260A/B, 284 Programming: 263, 264, 265, 267; EE219C Systems: 261, 261N, 262A, 262B, 268, 286B Architecture/VLSI: 250, 252, 258; EECS 251A/LA/LB students must complete the requirement by the end of their 6th semester. CS breadth courses can count towards a major or minor, but classes in different areas cannot be used together for the major or in the same minor. Possibly Breadth Petitions: If an EE course is petitioned to satisfy a CS breadth, it must fall within one of the areas listed above or below the line. 294 courses may be petitioned for breadth courses but must include the syllabus and strong reasoning as to their relevance to the breadth course. Class Information and Scheduling 299 Class Numbers 297 Class Numbers Please see the Current Term 299 Folder. Within each spreadsheet, there is an EE and CS tab. If you do not see your advisor’s section, please use the form on the first tab to request a section. If you [book phd coursework] background in probability, such as CS theory or EE systems, are recommended to take 2 graduate courses other than Stat 201A and 243, as they may find these courses insufficiently advanced for their purposes. Restricted courses for Statistics minor: Stat201A (formerly Stat200A) Stat243 EE226A is not officially cross-listed, but, due to course content, may be considered as cross-listed with Statistics. The Teaching Minor is intended for those with a strong interest in education, teaching pedagogy, or future faculty positions. The following are the requirements: A 3-unit course surveying research in issues relating to computer science education. Examples include the following: Education 170, 203, 224A, 224C, 225C, and 295B Information 216 and 247 Experimental courses such as those offered as Education 290 or Information 290 may also be appropriate for this requirement. Contact the Faculty Advisor for GSIs for further information. CS 302, “Designing CS Education” (3 units). In a semester-long project, participants invent and refine a number of homework and exam activities, review relevant educational research, and evaluate alternatives for texts, administrative policies, and uses of technology. A total of 40 hours of GSI appointments. (20 hours of work per week is equivalent to a 50% GSI appointment for a [resources undergrads minors eecs] The Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Minor - EECS at Berkeley The Minor in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences The EECS minor, offered through the College of Engineering, is an optional program for students declared in another major but interested in coherent EECS study. It is available to all eligible students, regardless of their college. Students interested in only studying computer science should consider the Computer Science Minor. Minor Requirements All courses must be technical in nature and completed for a letter grade EECS 16A EECS 16B CS 61A or E 7 CS 61B or CS 61C 3 Upper Division EE, CS, or EECS courses EE or CS 195, H196, 197, 198, or 199 may not be used to fulfill this requirement. Graduate-level courses may be considered by petition only; contact the Minor Advisor before enrolling. As of Spring 2025, EECS C106A/106B is no longer open to non-COE students EECS Minors: Where are they now? PhD programs at UCLA, Stanford, and Cal Tech in Electrical Engineering PhD program at UC Berkeley in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences PhD program at Johns Hopkins in Biomedical Engineering Masters of Business Administration program at UC Berkeley Senior Software Engineers at Tesla, Waymo, and [resources undergrads minors eecs] Upon successful completion of the minor coursework and procedures, students will receive a notation in the memorandum section of their transcript. Policies to Note Students must be declared in a major other than Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences. Unfortunately, the EECS Department is unable to offer course enrollment priority to EECS minors. Review enrollment policies for Computer Science and Electrical Engineering courses. Students may only overlap one upper-division course between their declared major and the EECS minor. Students may not complete both the EECS and CS minors. Due to the similarities in requirements, Computer Science majors are discouraged from pursuing the EECS minor. They may use only “EE” or “EECS”- titled upper-division courses toward the minor, and may not overlap any upper-division courses between their major and the EECS minor. Academic Advising Students interested in the EECS Minor are welcome to connect with the program’s advisor. Floriberto Garcia cs-advising@berkeley.edu Quick question about course planning, enrollment updates, etc.? Try the EECS 101 Edstem View Open Faculty Positions
